[music]
I think generally people are pretty
optimistic.
>> You need to own the winners. Everything
we're doing, I think the rest of the
world should be copying.
>> When we look at the rest of the stocks
in the S&P 500, there are some cracks.
>> In the near term, caution is warranted.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance [music]
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now coming
into Monday. Hello November. Big tech
putting the S&P 500 on a six-month
winning streak as the White House is
bracing for a Supreme Court hearing.
Investors [music] are gearing up for
another week full of Fed speed. Governor
Myron joins the program in the next
hour. It'll be really interesting to see
how he justifies dissenting by 50 basis
points [music] and not as uh we heard
from Bob Michael of JP Morgan by 75
basis points or 100 basis points next
month or in December. Will he have a
bigger descent [music]
and does the lack of official data
concern him or does he feel like there
is plenty to go on in order to have
bigger cuts?
>> Typically, we'd be looking forward to a
payrolls report. First [music] week of a
new trading month, no payrolls report
coming up on Friday. We're in the dark
still and this government shutdown is on
course for the longest on record and
arguably this week the White House won't
be focused on Congress. The White House
will be focused on the Supreme Court.
>> And the president told 60 Minutes
yesterday what's going on at the Supreme
Court with AIPA having this decision or
at least the start of it with the oral
arguments kicking off this week. He
thinks it's the most important subject
discussed by the Supreme Court in 100
years and it's very consequential this
week. either the Supreme Court is going
to uphold that the president is allowed
to use IEPa, this very blunt instrument,
or the Supreme Court is going to strike
it down and then potentially as much as
$90 billion is going to have to be
refunded to businesses can cause a lot
of chaos.
>> A core point of difference, I think, for
Governor Marin right now and the rest of
the committee probably comes down to
tariffs. For him, it doesn't matter if
they're on or off. It doesn't really
make a difference for the
disinflationary story that he's
forecasting into next year.
>> And you know what? There are a lot of
people who agree with him and frankly
the early data suggests that that is
true and actually you have not seen that
big of a hit from the tariffs. You have
seen some people speculate you will see
the price increases early next year.
Nonetheless, the bigger question is
inflation [music] is above that 2%
target. It has been for 5 years. At what
point does that in and of itself concern
him? Is he tacitly accepting a two plus
inflation uh rate or is he saying it'll
get down there because of housing which
has been his [music] biggest argument?
At least the financial conditions are
super super easy. The credit market is
wide open. Alphabet the latest to tap
the European debt market. Last week meta
selling $30 billion worth of bonds.
[music] And this is the push back coming
from the Kansas City Fed president. This
is why he desented the other way. This
market [music] is not tight.
>> Frankly, financial conditions never seem
to matter unless stocks are going down.
Well, for Jeff Schmidt of the Kansas
City Fed, it was the opposite. He
actually was concerned about this with
the [music] tech giants. This follows
the $30 billion deal as you were talking
about last year uh coming out of Meta
and then of course we had the Oracle
deal which was also massive. It raises a
question is the Fed fueling a
speculative bubble if they are keeping
rates or lowering rates where they are
based on the capital market activity
that we've seen so far.
>> Very close to all-time highs coming into
November. Closing out October on a sixth
month winning run on the [music] S&P
500. Futures this morning up by a third
of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Jim Biano of Biano Research with
stocks on a six-month winning run. Toby
Marcus of Wolf Research with US tariffs
heading for a Supreme Court hearing and
Andrew Honhorse of City looking for
chair pal to keep cutting. We begin this
hour with stocks rising fueled by big
tech and easing trade tensions. Jim
Piano of Biano Research writing, "The
real AI bubble is pessimism about not
owning enough of it. AI stocks are
already at a record concentration for
one theme, 48% of the S&P 500. Jim joins
us now for more. Jim, welcome to the
program, buddy. Are you suggesting we
haven't seen capitulation yet?
>> Uh, no, I don't think we have, but we're
getting very close to it. It might have
actually process might have begun last
week with the earnings reports that we
saw from these companies. Now that I've
said that, that capitulation process
could take several months uh or it could
take a couple of weeks. But there seems
to be a movement towards everybody's got
to get into AI and just got full speed
ahead right now.
>> What does the rest of the market Jim say
about the broader US economy? This came
from Jonathan Kinsky of BTIG that a
record high we sit on Wednesday hit on
Wednesday just last week. 33% of the
components of the S&P down 20% or more
from a 52 week high. What tells you more
about the broader economy?
>> I think the rest of the market does and
and you're right. If you were to exclude
the AI stocks, and we do an exercise of
it like a lot of other people do, you've
got maybe the rest of the nonAI stock
market up six, seven or 8% for the year.
And to put that into perspective, the
bond market, the Bloomberg aggregate
index is up 7% for the year. So the rest
of the market is just performing in line
with the bond market right now. And it's
showing you that the economy is, you
know, okay, 7% return after 11 months is
not necessarily a
>> Jim Biano of Biano Research. It looks
like we've got a technical issue with
that connection. When we reestablish
that, we'll come back to Jim in a couple
of minutes time. We call it earning
season, Lisa. I call it cherry-picking
season. Pick a story, tell a story, pick
a name, whatever you want. I'm going to
pick Chipotle last week. That tells you
a lot, I think, about why the people who
aren't concerned about inflation are
more worried about the labor market.
Chipotle basically telling you the
consumer slowdown is affecting a
business and we don't plan to offset
higher costs with higher prices. That's
Chipotle. They've got their own
problems. I know, but if you were to
cherrypick one story to support the
governor argument right now for lower
interest rates, that would probably be
it.
>> Yeah, Chipotle. Is it the Chipotle
economy or is it the Delta economy? I
would give you another one. eBay. Lori
Calvacina came out with a quote that was
from their earnings call saying that
there were greater orders of used parts
for people who can't afford to replace
an actual item that is a big ticket
item. There is a sense around the
margins there is a real deterioration
around consumer discretionary and
consumer staples apart from the high-end
luxury that has caused a lot of concern
and it's the reason why Torson last week
said there is a K-shaped market. It is
not just an economy where you see the
mag seven gaining in profits and you see
the rest of them not so much.
>> Jim Biano, we've reestablished that
connection. Jim, welcome back into the
show. Let's just build on what Lisa and
I were talking about. The Chipotle
economy, the Delta Airlines economy.
Which economy should this Federal
Reserve be selling interest rates for?
The Chipotles of this world or down to
Airlines? Because one means rate cuts
and the other means something completely
different.
It
>> it does. And I think the Fed has to be
careful here because they operate under
the financial channel. And the the the
short answer you'll hear is stocks are
at an all-time high, housing's at an
all-time high, M2's at an all-time high,
gold's at an all-time high, crypto's
near an all-time high. What problem are
you trying to fix with the financial
channel? So, if they want to cut rates,
they're just helping the top 10% or the
top end of the K by pushing markets up.
It's not necessarily going to help the
bottom of the K. the bottom of the K
needs more in terms of production
increases and maybe changes in demand in
order to help fix that. So necessarily
cutting interest rates to help push the
stock market to new highs and push maybe
M2 up higher and to push housing prices
higher is not going to definitely help
the broad masses of the economy. That
said, Jim, one argument against that is
that actually cutting rates will help
people with auto loans or student loans
or some of these short-term lending
instruments that have been the most
ownorous for the lower end of the K
shape. I mean, do you just reject that?
you say that the the bang isn't worth
the buck just based on the fact that it
will inflate something of a bubble
>> if it works. Because if you go back to
last year's uh rate cuts in September of
24 after the Fed started cutting rates,
long-term interest rates went up and
there was no relief in any of those
other loans because they're set at
market rates. And the reason was the
market looked at those rate cuts, was
worried that it was going to be
inflationary, and interest rates rose.
If the market was to see a series of
aggressive rate cuts right now as
potentially inflationary, you could see
a repeat of that where long-term
interest rates would go up. It's not a
given if the Fed cuts rates that
long-term interest rates will follow
lower. Last year is a great example of
that.
>> Jim, does it concern you that a lot of
the big tech names are issuing more
debt? That there is leverage starting to
creep into this techdriven cycle in a
way that really hadn't been the case a
couple of years ago.
>> Yeah, it does. because they're they're
starting to, you know, imply that the
the buildouts that they want to do and
the impact on the economy is not going
to be funded out of cash flow like they
were telling us literally earlier this
year, but that they're going to start
borrowing. And that's going to put more
pressure on them to see a lot of this AI
and a lot of these buildouts produce
profits and produce cash flow. right now
if they were funding it out of their
just own their own profit operations and
not borrowing they'd have a little bit
more runway in making waiting until
things were profitable. So that's going
to compress this cycle that they're
going to have to start making money much
sooner than they maybe thought a few
months ago.
>> So there are two sides of this. On one
hand, you could say this actually
injects more discipline on these
companies and we've seen that with Meta
over the past week after their earnings
report and people were concerned about
their spending. You could flip this on
its head and say, "Well, if the Fed cuts
rates, it will only fuel the bubble that
much more and make people uh sort of
more accepting of any kind of leverage."
Which do you see as the more likely
scenario?
>> I'm more in the latter camp. I know
Chairman Paul said at his press
conference on Wednesday, last week, that
all of this AI funding was not interest
rate sensitive. Yeah, that's true. No
one at Met is sitting around worrying
about what the interest rate they're
going to get on their 30 billion bonds
are. But the banks and the hedge funds
and everybody else that's getting cheap
money is desperate for something with
yield and they're willing to buy
something like this. So the Fed rate
cuts do at least on a secondary method
help push th these things higher. And I
think that this is going to be really
important as we move forward is that
this easing of financial conditions is
going to have a second order effect in
the economy especially the AI economy.
Jim, John mentioned at the top of the
show that it's day 34 of the government
shutdown. How important do you think is
it for the government to open and to get
the data back out and flowing for this
Federal Reserve to cut in December?
>> I mean, it's it's actually more
important for the Federal Reserve than
it is for the for like the rest of Wall
Street only because there's plenty of
private data out there to give us an
idea of where the economy is going.
Earnings last week, we had almost half
the S&P report. We've got, you know,
something like 50 or 60 S&P report
companies reporting this week. So, we've
got a pretty good idea where the economy
is. The problem is the Fed works on
models based on government data and
they're not getting that data. So, it's
more of an issue for them than it is an
issue for say investors saying, do we
really have a good handle of where the
economy is?
>> Jim, are you basically saying that you
don't need BLS data anymore? What if we
never get it again? Would you be would
this market be fine?
I mean, it would you could adjust for
it. You have already seen ADP come out
with a new pulse report that's putting
out weekly numbers. There are ways that
the market will adjust and fill that gap
if we never were to get BLS data before.
Now that I've said that, we are going to
get BLS data before again because this
government shutdown will end. I know it
seems like it's going to go forever, but
it will end at some point. Now, we may
not get October data. There might be a a
permanent hole in the data series, but
we will start getting data again.
>> Well, Jim, I think Amory guesses
something important though. I think the
key issue right now for a lot of people
is this equity market has completely
decoupled from payrolls growth anyway.
So, even if it comes back, how
instructive will it actually be for the
direction of equity markets?
>> Well, I think it would be instructive
for the rest of the nonAI equity markets
because they still operate on cash flow,
profits, outlook, and strategy and all
of those other things. and that the e
and that the state of the economy will
matter a lot more for them. But the AI
economy is operating on something
completely different. I'll give you one
quick example. Look at the Mag 7. Which
is the worst performer in the Mac 7?
It's Apple. And what does Apple not have
an AI strategy? It seems like the market
is punishing anybody who decides not to
play an AI like Apple and wants
everybody to play in this game and it's
so everybody's got a ch has to play. So,
the AI stocks are going to keep playing
until at one point there's the demand
for profits, but the rest of the economy
is definitely going to need to see some
data and it's going to need to see some
uh clues as to where the economy is
going.
>> Hey Jim, appreciate it as always. Jim
Biano there of Biano Research on the
latest moves just to sit on tech. Lisa,
these tech companies are changing.
They're very different. We used to
reward them for being assetike and
capital return heavy and now that story
might be making a turn. Yeah, we're
rewarding them for saying AI 15 times on
uh their earnings call and talking about
cloud growth and domination there. There
is a question here especially as you see
each of these tech giants seek control
over the uh energy infrastructure and
some of the cloud computing abilities
just how much they are leveraging
themselves to a model that will
dramatically change Allah deep in China.
>> The Nasdaq 100 this morning higher by
0.6%.
If you're just tuning in, welcome to the
program. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning. And here
is your Bloomberg brief. The United
States pausing some of President Trump's
reciprocal tariffs [music] on China and
halting plans to implement a 100% tariff
on Chinese exports to the US. In return,
China immediately suspending export
[music] controls on rare earth metals
and dropping its probes into US chip
firms. Elsewhere, the US government
shutdown is in its 34th day and on track
to be the longest ever this week.
President Donald Trump telling 60
Minutes he quote won't [music] be
extorted by Democrats demanding an
extension of Affordable Care Act
subsidies that expire at the end of the
year. And finally, Microsoft signing an
approximately $9.7 billion deal to
purchase AI cloud capacity [music] from
Iron, becoming the Australian company's
largest customer. The 5-year agreement
will provide Microsoft access to Nvidia
accelerator systems in [music] Texas.
Microsoft this morning up by 0.3%. Up
next on the program, the Supreme Court
taking on tariffs.
>> I think it's one of the biggest
decisions in the history of the Supreme
Court. I wanted to go so badly. I just
don't want to do anything to deflect the
importance of that decision. If we don't
have tariffs, we don't have national
security.
>> That conversation up next with Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> The week ahead has something big missing
for Friday. No payrolls report. Plenty
[music] of data between now and the next
one. We get ISM manufacturing later on
this morning at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
ISM services coming later in the week in
two way two days time. So look out for
that. And the ADP [music]
data just takes on additional importance
all over again. Brammo, we're still
getting [music] economic data. We're not
exactly flying blind.
>> I remember when people didn't care about
ADP and they said that it never cohered
to the non-farm payrolls report. So
ignore it. They still traded on it. But
nonetheless, this time around, just
think about how trigger-happy
everybody's going to be in any kind of
capacity, especially given the fact that
they're increasing their surveillance
and some sort of approximation [music]
of the weekly payrolls as well. Jim
Yonko made a really good point. The Fed
needs the [music] official data cuz
that's what all their models are
tethered to, but the market could just
look elsewhere, which is why I think
December becomes really challenging for
them. Do [music] they look even
political if the government's still shut
down and they're not getting any data?
And I think it's why Jay Powell spent a
lot of time talking about the shutdown
at that press conference.
>> Inflation around 3%, GDP [music] around
3%, unemployment around 4%, equities at
all-time highs. When we catch up with
Governor Myron in the next hour, that's
kind [music] of the push back from the
other side of the committee right now.
Do we really need these interest rate
reductions?
>> Where's the pain? Where is the financial
sector that would actually be the
transmission mechanism that will cause
some sort of benefit to the economy that
isn't already there because credit
markets are wide open? That is the push
back. That is what we heard from
Schmidt. And here's the question for me.
At what point does he reject that
despite the fact that [music] we have no
data?
>> Governor Marin, 7:15 Eastern time right
here in the studio in New York City.
Equity futures on the S&P with a lift
once again up by 0.4% on the [music] S&P
500. On the NASDAQ 100, high up by 0.6
this morning, the Supreme Court taking
on tariffs.
>> I think it's one of the biggest
decisions in the history of the Supreme
Court. other countries [clears throat]
use tariffs against us. I wanted to go
so badly. I just don't want to do
anything to deflect the importance of
that decision. If we don't have tariffs,
we don't have national security and the
rest of the world would laugh at us
because they've used tariffs against us
for years. So, here's the latest this
morning. The Supreme Court set to
[music] hear the biggest challenge to
date to President Trump's tariff policy
on Wednesday with the ruling poised to
determine the outlook for global trade.
Toby Marcus of Wolf Research joins us
now for more. Toby, welcome to the
program. Your expectations for later
this week and beyond. What do you think
the final decision will be? Yeah, so I'm
a little bit out of consensus on this in
believing that the tariffs probably will
survive. Uh it certainly could go either
way. I'd put the odds that they're
struck down around 40%. I think
consensus is more in the 65% range. The
arguments against the tariffs, I think,
are fairly clear. Obviously, we've seen
both the circuit uh and district courts
rule against them. But at the Supreme
Court level, you know, I think there's a
few considerations. One, uh the
centerright block that's going to be
decisive on the Supreme Court does tend
to be very differential on questions of
national security and foreign policy. Um
I think that uh Chief Justice Roberts
also is very protective of the court as
an institution from a political
perspective. So, he's going to be a
little bit wary of upsetting the apple
cart here, especially as more and more
trade deals have come to depend on these
tariffs. Uh and then finally, if you
just look at the court of appeals for
the federal circuit, the most recent,
the highest uh level ruling that we've
gotten, the majority of the Republican
appointed just judges on that panel uh
dissented from the decision striking
them down and said they would have
upheld them as did two of the Democrats.
So, it's not that it's been, you know,
uniform against them so far. Um but the
two uh that the composition of the
courts that have ruled against the
tariffs so far is very very very
different than the conservative
dominated Supreme Court. Tobin, some may
agree with you in terms of the fentinel
tariffs that that is a national security
concern, but what about reciprocal
tariffs? Do you still think that would
be considered national security concern
at the Supreme Court?
>> Yeah. So, I think they will rise and
fall together because I uh really do not
think that the grounds on which the
Roberts court is going to want to decide
this is factual second-guessing of what
is and is not an emergency. I think
that's the last thing that they want to
do. I think it's going to be decided as
a question of law, not as a question of
fact. So, I don't think they're going to
be looking at these two separate AIPA
emergency declarations and saying
fentanyl is legit, the persistent
elevated trade deficit is not. I think
they're going to be looking at does IPA
give you the power to do tariffs at all?
And if so, I think both of the the
national security declarations are sort
of facially credible. This came up a lot
at the circuit court level. um you know
the the states that were challenging the
tariffs were sort of uh poo pooing the
legitimacy of that emergency declaration
and some of the judges even judges
sympathetic to their case on the panel
were like well look here in the the
presidential um declaration it talks
about undermining our manufacturing base
it talks about military readiness these
various different things that Trump says
are imperiled by trade deficits you know
you can question that argument but there
is an argument he's being that's being
made
>> last week a handful of Republicans
decided to approve a resolution that
would end the national emergency powers
the president has when it comes to
trade. What kind of push back do you
think you could see from some members of
the Republican party in Congress if the
Supreme Court upholds AIPA?
>> I think they will continue ringing their
hands as they have. That's that's
generally as far as they're they're
willing and able to go. I mean that uh
that vote that we saw in the Senate
recently was basically symbolic. You
would need the House to do it uh to
actually have that have any legal force
and then the president can veto it. and
there's not the level of of dissension
on the Republican side to uh to overcome
a veto. So, you know, I mean, there's
plenty of more traditional free market
types in the congressional Republican
coalition. They will continue saying
that they're concerned about how these
tariffs look, but ultimately if the
Supreme Court gives the president the
latitude to go forward, then these
tariffs are going to stick. Tobin, there
are a number of elections uh tomorrow
around the country, in particular New
Jersey, Virginia, New York, and I'm just
wondering if there are Democratic wins,
do you think that that will affect the
way that the president responds to any
potential court decision that could come
on Wednesday or not on Wednesday, but
after the Wednesday arguments?
>> Yeah, I'll throw California into that uh
that bucket also where we're watching
the ballot initiative to uh allow them
to move forward with redistricting. I
don't really think I mean look from our
perspective as we're sizing up the
midterms looking at the extent to which
Democrats not win but sort of
overperform or underperform their
expected margins in those races is going
to shape our view of the cycle.
Certainly Democrats are expected to win
both those gubernatorial races. um if
there's an outright loss, that would be
a huge victory for Republicans. But, you
know, it's I think it's really a
question of where the margins come in.
But, you know, I think you need to see a
very shocking result for Trump to uh to
to change his his actual kind of policy
strategy in response to those results.
If you know, Republicans do well, he's
going to be uh triumphant. If they do
poorly, I think he just won't say that
much about uh the outcome there.
>> Tobin, we are also looking at a
government shutdown that's poised to be
the longest ever come Wednesday. Do you
think that that could change some of the
navigating of the president with respect
to how to negotiate with the Democrats
depending on Tuesday's outcome.
>> Yeah. So, you know, I mean, there's one
theory the Democrats are going to uh
sort of be become more willing to end
the shutdown once they get past these
elections. You know, they don't want to
pack it in before uh the elections
happen in Virginia because they want to
be able to tell federal workers in
particular, you know, we're fighting for
you, that kind of thing. I'm not really
sure that it's going to be that big of a
catalyst, but it is one of a number of
things coming up along with possible
interruptions of SNAP benefits and air
traffic controller sickouts and so forth
that you know could get people talking a
little bit more than they have. Um but
again, I think the president feels
generally and to some extent correctly
that Republicans are in just a position
of strength across the board. And so
even if you see Democrats doing fairly
well in these pair of off-year
elections, I don't think he's going to
feel vulnerable or that he needs to um
sort of approach the Democrats in a less
uh from a less dominant position. You
know, I think certainly as it comes to
the shutdown, he the view from
Republican leadership is going to
continue to be we're going to talk
policy if and only if you guys agree to
end the shutdown first. Um that's always
been the position of both parties and it
it's sort of hard to move off that
because you can't concede the principle
that the minority can demand policy
concessions based on shutdowns.
>> Tab and Marcus, appreciate it, sir. As
always, Tab and Marcus there of Wolf
Research in the short term at least. I'm
not sure this is on the president's
radar as even a top three issue at the
moment.
>> The shutdown not really. I mean, he
thinks that the Republicans hold the
cards here and at some point moderate
Democrats are going to have to flit pick
up those votes. He basically said that
yesterday in 60 Minutes and I still am
watching Virginia and Maryland [music]
maybe after we have this event in terms
of the elections tomorrow. These
Democrats might end up saying, "Okay,
time to reopen the government cuz our
federal workers are not getting [music]
paid."
>> The focus firmly elsewhere. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Jane
Foley of Rubber Bank with the dollar
riding strong momentum. Plus, Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers.
Burkshire Hathaway rising on a massive
profit rebound and record [music] cash
pal. From New York, this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Three straight weeks of gains on the S&P
500, the longest weekly run since the
middle of September. [music]
Equity futures right now adding some
weight to the rally coming into November
on a six-month winning run. The longest
going back to 2021. Equity futures on
the NASDAQ up by 0.6% on the Russell. A
lift there as well up by 0.1. In the
bond market, bond yields down on the
last month but up in the last week. The
two-year yield just taking a temperature
of a very divided committee at the
moment. Two-year yields at 35778.
Chairman Pal pouring some cold water
over a December rate cut and a chorus of
hawks coming out in support on Friday
into the weekend.
>> Listing everything from inflation to
financial conditions that seem fairly
easy as a reason not to cut again in
December. [music] How much does this
cohhere with the strength that we've
seen in the dollar which also has
upended a lot of the consensus trades
that we've seen so far this year?
>> Bono's just pushing higher just a little
bit on the session once again. And more
on the US dollar in just a moment as we
count you down to the opening bound
about 3 hours away. Let's get you some
morning movers [music] with Danny
Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Over the weekend we had
earnings from Berkshire Hathaway shares
up 2 and a3%. Operating profit jumped by
33% and as tends to be the case for
their earnings. The cash pile grew and
continue to hit new records at 380
[music] billion. It's now equivalent or
more than a market cap of PNG or Home
Depot. One of the big earnings we're
also going to be getting after the bell
today is Palunteer. Shares are rallying
ahead of that. [music] Shares are up
160%.
So far year to date, nearing 170% I
should say. Expectations are for revenue
to jump [music] 50%. Options are pricing
in a 10% swing for the share price. So
expectations clearly high for the
company [music] when it reports. Finally
wrapping things up with another day of
AI deal news. This time it is Microsoft
that will be buying from Iron $9.7
billion worth [music] of cloud capacity
will make it one of the Australian
company's largest customers. As part of
that they get access to Nvidia
processors. They're also going to be
buying some equipment [music] from Dell.
So Dell also moving on that news. But
yep, yet again another AI deal. John
>> Danny, thank you. There goes another
one. Danny Burgerer there. More from
Danny [music] in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump skipping this week's Supreme Court
hearing over the legality of his tariff
agenda. Wednesday, justices will hear
arguments looking to strike down most of
the levies Trump has imposed since
returning to office. Elsewhere,
President Donald Trump declaring
Nvidia's Blackwell chip would not be
available for other countries. Trump
hinting a scaled down version of the
chip could be sold to China. And
finally, Alphabet becoming the latest
tech giant to tap into the debt market.
people familiar with the matter telling
Bloomberg that Google's parent company
is looking to raise up to three billion
in euro denominated bonds to fund record
AI spending. Speaking of there goes
another one. There goes some more debt
to fund this big move.
>> Yeah. And you could say $3 billion or 3
billion euros is a rounding error
compared to the $30 billion from Meta
and the $28 billion from Oracle.
Nonetheless, it builds on this trend
that we've seen and techreated debt has
actually superseded financial debt in
the investment grade corporate bond
market for the first time in a very long
time. climate raises a question. Is this
a new cycle of risk where it's being
transferred from the equity holders to
the bond holders at a time where there
is a very different business model
emerging? Meta is talking about at least
on their conference call that 2026
spending is going to be notably larger.
And then the Microsoft CFO basically was
saying what bubble we cannot do enough
to meet demand right now. And they're
talking about I thought we were going to
catch up. We are not. Demand is
increasing that much quicker. So
everyone that says we're in a bubble,
then you go on these tech earning
conference calls, you hear from the CFOs
and they're basically saying actually we
feel like we're behind when it comes to
this race.
>> Up until now, the market had been
rewarding this behavior. I say up until
now because Meta still had a massive
order book on that debt last week. The
market been rewarding this kind of
behavior coming into the debt market.
Fund those ambitions. We're wide open.
You can do that. Take on some leverage.
We've talked for years and years and
years about strong balance sheets,
cashri companies. Lisa, to your point,
are we starting to see a change in
behavior? And is the market going to
continue to reward these companies for
it? Or was last week the first real test
just the first little bit of push back
for Meta and maybe others to come?
>> Yeah. And where is the push back going
to come? Is it going to come from the
bond market or is it going to come from
the stock market where people realize
it's going to cost something to pay this
back? back and Jim Biano is saying if
the Fed cuts rates, he's worried that it
could fuel some of the leverage and fuel
some of the uh expectations of
bubbleicious types of behavior because
it will incentivize income buyers to
keep on going those bonds and rewarding
that behavior even as stock traders are
starting to get a little bit nervous.
>> Last week it came from the equity
market, hasn't come from the credit
market just yet. More on that with
Amanda Linham of Black Rockck. She joins
us in the next hour. Let's turn to the
FX market and the US dollar. Bloomberg's
dollar index on track to reach a
six-month high, continuing to rebound
from a shaky first half of the year.
Jane Foley of Rabber Bank writing, "We
have not been forecasting a continued
slide in the dollar's value next year."
Jane joins us now for more. Jane,
welcome back. Only 6 months ago, we were
talking about sell America. The dollar
trade is over. A dollar bare market is
upon us. And you and I talked about
this. So much of that was the first
half, the first quarter of 25. What do
you expect 26 will bring?
Well, you know, that's a really good
question because I think many people are
still surprised that uh if you look at
the second half of the year today, well,
the dollar is the best performing G10
currency. So, not only um has it done
well uh, you know, in in October where
it was the best performer. It's actually
a lot longer than that. And that sort of
goes against a lot of people's
instincts. I still have people talking
to me about, you know, dollar weakness.
Yes, those those those drops in the
first five months really of this year
were so extreme, but actually the dollar
has done a fairly good job of of
recovering it it's its ground and and I
think that really does question this
consensus trade about uh you know we're
heading to 120 and beyond. I mean the
consensus is still of that view and and
I think right now we need to stop and
rethink. Now it is difficult to rethink
because obviously we don't have the US
data but I think that most of the
weakness that we had in the first say 5
months of this year was really position
adjustment. You know since the global
financial crisis we've had this big um
increase in in investment from non
dollar-based investors. A lot of it
going into to the S&P into US assets and
at the start of the year people were
sort of questioning that and I think
they still are to be fair the
diversification trade. Uh but you know,
does that mean that the dollar can carry
on plummeting? Well, I don't think it
does. And I and I think the dollar, you
know, will be a lot more stable and I
I'm really beginning to question whether
or not we're going to see, you know, any
significant dollar losses from this
juncture in.
>> Well, Jame, let's address the rate
picture as well. That's a key feature of
the conversation into year end. Chairman
Pal backed away from signaling any kind
of interest rate cuts into year end. Bob
Michael of JP Morgan, Lisa mentioned him
earlier. He was on the program with us
on Fed decision day. He pushed back too.
He said chairman Pal has entered the
lame duck part of his term. Now Jane,
what are the FX complications associated
with chairman pal lame duck into year
ending going into May next year?
>> You know I I think it's the May next
year which which is potentially more
risky for the dollar because that is you
know I think a risk factor if the market
does begin to question Fed independence.
But even that you know we can't even um
judge that that is going to happen
because it really does depend on the
economic data. So for instance uh right
now the market is forecasting quite a
progressive uh decline in uh Federal
Reserve interest rates because it
expects the labor market in the US to to
loosen. Now as long as there is a broad
consensus amongst economists that the
Fed is going to ease well you know if it
does ease well well fine. Nobody is
going to be saying, "Oh, you know, uh,
Trump is trying to undermine Fed
independence." Because if the market
continues to agree with him, but the the
difficulty is if the US data perhaps
shows more resilience and then we get a
big push from the administration on the
Fed to cut. That's potentially when we
could get, you know, a cracks emerging
in the independence of the Fed. So
that's a risk factor for the dollar. You
know, that would raise market
expectations about inflation. It could
undermine the dollar, for instance. But
if the US economy remains broadly on
track relative to market expectations
now, well, that's going to be less of a
factor too. And given that there is so
much easing already priced in, actually,
you know, the dollar could demonstrate a
little bit of strength as it did at the
end of the week if the Fed doesn't it
doesn't cut quite as much as the market
is expecting.
>> Jane, is it rate differentials that's
actually determining the value of the
dollar versus comparative uh currencies
or is it growth differentials or is it
simply a momentum trade?
Well, you know, I I think it depends
which currency pair that you're talking
about because I think if we were talking
about dollar yen, well, I think there's
a momentum trade right there now. You
know, that that the market does or has
wanted to take the the yen weaker. I
think if we if we judge currency pairs
generally though, we can't get away from
rate differentials, they are there. But
I think once you get politics embedded
in this, if you were to get um issues
such as central bank independence coming
through, you know, then you do get other
issues coming through. And and and don't
forget the Bank of England may not be um
completely uh resilient to issues about
independence going forward too. If there
were a general election now, we'd
probably get far and far would certainly
want to undermine uh the Bank of England
independence. So this could be an issue
for other central banks going forward
too. Jane, the reason why I ask is
because it's notable that in the past
weeks we've seen a dollar strength from
the DXY and BBDXY indexes at the same
time that we've seen gold weakness. And
I wonder if there is a correlation here,
if there is something going on or if
it's just simply, you know, correlation
was not causation.
You know, I I think it's difficult to
see correlations in such a short time
span. Often we have to step back and
look at these over a much longer time
frame. And I think what we had with with
gold was just, you know, the market was
just getting a little bit too heavy. The
retail investor was getting a little bit
too heavy. So almost certainly a little
bit of dollar strength. You know, it
created a little bit of of profit
taking. But I do think the relationship
between gold and the dollar is important
because I think what we have right now
is still a diversification trade and and
I think this is really valid. So I I've
never really bought into the the dollar
debasement trade. And I really don't
think that is um an issue but I do think
it is valid uh to look at um other
aspects of the global economy. So for
instance I mentioned that since the
global financial crisis a lot of money
has been plowing into to US stocks into
US bonds for instance into the dollar
and I think right now people are se
stepping back and thinking what about
Japanese stocks because there's been a
lot of reform in the Japanese stock
market. There's been you know Japan is
coming out of 30 years of deflation.
you've got a lot of interest in in
stocks right now in parts of Africa and
that's because of of minerals. So of
course and earlier this year there's a
lot of interest in in the the Euro zone
because of Germany's debt break issue.
So I think the diversification and gold
is part of that because of the central
banks like Russia and China buying gold.
I think gold is part of that
diversification trade but I think what
we saw in gold you know in the last few
weeks is just a little bit of profit
taking because it just moved too fast
you know too soon. But Jane, you think
it's acting as a store of value rather
than as a currency. Is that correct?
>> I think I think that the gold is
certainly a store of of value. I mean,
we have that. I mean, that's
historically over thousands of years,
you know, people be able to take it with
them in terms of of prices. You can't do
that with property. You you you know,
and that's why gold has its intrinsic
value. Um with respect to the dollar
though you know it also has a massive
safe haven appeal and that is just the
depth the sheer depth of the US capital
markets and also if you look around the
world you know the dollar is used by so
many people as a transaction currency
and if there were to be any sort of
crisis many people are going to think oh
you know I need to get my dollars to pay
off my dollar denominator to debt or to
you know to pay my bills. So from that
point of view you know that the dollar
in my view will remain a safe haven
value you know for for decades to come.
Jane, you mentioned Nigel Farage and a
few days ago there was a poll where he
was leading slightly over Kier Starharma
a Nigel Farage prime minister. Is that
pound positive or negative?
>> Well, you know, that's certainly what
the polls would say if there was an
election in the UK tomorrow and then and
there isn't there isn't going to be an
election for maybe three and a half,
four years, that sort of time frame, but
certainly it would appear that reform
would certainly win the election and
that would put Farish as its leader as
the most likely candidate for for prime
minister. Um in terms of the pound um
you know what he is saying sounds
attractive in terms of the fiscal
situation um you know uh in terms of
saving money but actually if you look at
his voter base uh they are generally
older uh people and it would be very
hard for far therefore to cut back on
some of the benefits that older people
get in terms of um you know pension um
gains etc and that means that possibly
there'll be a lot of disappointment over
the policies when it comes to p uh to to
welfare and and pension reform if far
were to uh take the reigns.
>> Hey Jane, always good to see you. Jane
Foley there of Rubber Bank on the FX
market. The dollar stronger against
absolutely everything in G10 through the
month of October. That's the FX price
action. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. The [music] President
Donald Trump threatening possible
military action against Islamist
militants in Nigeria unless the
country's government holds the killing
of Christians. Trump designating Nigeria
as a country of particular concern.
Elsewhere, [music] oil is holding steady
after OPEC plus announced plans to pause
output increases at the start of next
year. The group and its allies saying
they'll raise production by about
137,000 barrels a day in December
[music]
before taking a break from January to
March. And finally, Ryionaire lifting
its passenger growth target for the year
as it reports second quarter earnings to
beat the Irish budget carrier saying it
received aircraft early from Boeing and
travel demand remain strong. That right
there is your Bloomberg brief. Up next
on a program looking beyond [music] a
December rate cup.
>> Absent new information that clearly
changes the story and challenges this
idea that risks to labor and inflation
are coming to into better balance. you
cut December and then you take a timeout
uh to assess in early 2026.
>> Up next is a man who thinks those cuts
keep on [music] coming. Andrew Honhorse
of City joins us next.
Coming up on the program in the next
hour, don't miss this conversation.
Governor Myron voting for a 50 basis
point reduction at the Federal Reserve
meeting last Wednesday. He's going to
join us to explain why and maybe get
into some of the division on the rest of
the committee as descent cuts both ways
in the last week. So that's the setup
for the next hour. Equity futures this
morning just about positive by 0.3% on
the S&P 500. A lift on the Nasdaq as
well up by 0.6 under surveillance this
morning looking beyond a December rate
cut.
The logical compromise is [music] what
the logical compromise always was which
was absent new information that clearly
changes the [music] story and challenges
this idea that risks to labor and
inflation are coming to into better
balance. you cut December and then you
take a time out uh to assess in early
2026. That was my base case before. It's
my base case now, albeit with somewhat
less confidence.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors are waiting private data this
week for direction that could shape the
Fed's path for interest rates. Andrew
Honhorse of City writing the very slow
pace of hiring is likely to keep Fed
officials cutting rates in December and
into 26. Andrew joins us now for more.
Andrew, good morning.
>> Morning. Did the meeting on Wednesday
change your mind?
>> Didn't change my mind. I think it made
very clear that there are big divisions
across the committee. What we really
need is data. With the government
shutdown, we're waiting to get data.
We're going to need that data to figure
out what's going on in the economy.
>> Let's address the two descents. Governor
Myron, one way, the other way, President
Smith, who has the more convincing
argument for you and why?
>> Well, I think there are a couple issues
here. One is what's the balance of risk
between inflation and employment? And in
my view, it has become much more clear
that that balance has moved further into
balance. And you could even say that
these downside risks to employment are
maybe dominating. We've had, if
anything, weaker than expected,
inflation data, the pass through from
tariffs has been less strong than
expected. And then you look at the
employment data, which is what we were
writing about. Job growth is averaging
only 29,000 per month in the data that
we have up to August. Now, I'd love to
have that September jobs report. We
should have been getting the October
jobs report, right? We really need that
data to know what's going on in the
labor market. Um, but if it were me
making decisions, and it's not, I would
be more concerned about the downside
risk to employment.
>> It's kind of interesting that when
investors come on, they're talking about
the reaceleration early next year from
the tax rebates and some of the other uh
efforts coming out of Washington. And we
talk to economists, they're worried
about a downtrend in the economy that's
going to continue. Can you explain the
divergence between these two?
>> Yeah, I have sensed that same
disconnect. I think if you ask most
economists, what we're seeing is growth
that isn't falling off a cliff, but
slowed down since last year. We have
rates of growth in the first half of
this year that were slower than in the
second half of last year, depending on
how you calculate it. And we have this
big slowdown in job growth, weak hiring.
If the hiring rate is low, even if we
have a slowdown in labor force growth,
and there's a whole debate about what
that break even rate of payrolls growth
is, that means we're going to have
slower income growth. If you have slower
income grow growth, you're going to have
slower spending growth. So, this really
looks like a slowdown, not a
reaceleration. But you're right, if you
talk to people involved in markets, I
think there is an expectation out there
that we can actually reacelerate.
>> Well, there is also an argument and Jim
Biano was threading this needle. And
it's a delicate one. This idea that if
the Fed does cut rates more, it's not
going to help the people who really need
it as much as fuel some of the gains
that we've seen in equity and bond
markets that have really affected the
upper echelons of the income scale. So,
how do you how do you frame that? The
idea that the financial transmission
mechanism for all intents and purposes
is diluted if not broken.
>> It's a very blunt tool. Interest rate
policy. That's just a general issue that
the Federal Reserve has to grapple with.
If you cut interest rates, yes, that
could lead to lower mortgage rates that
could boost housing prices u which of
course acrew to those who own houses
already. Um that could worsen
inequality. Um but think about what's
going on in the housing sector right
now. Now we have house prices that were
actually falling for multiple months.
Now they seem to have stabilized a bit
with lower mortgage rates. So I'm not as
worried about what's going on there. On
the other hand, cutting interest rates
also helps boost economic demand. That
helps address lower hiring rates. Who
are those lower hiring rates hurting? Um
that really is people at the lower end
of the income distribution. Um people
with high incomes tend to keep their
jobs for long periods of time. It's not
a problem if you're in a job right now.
The layoff rate is actually low. It's if
you're out of a job that you have a
problem.
>> Andrew, what do you make of the Supreme
Court going to hear oral arguments on
AIPA? If they strike this down, there's
refunds to businesses. Will this cause
chaos just for the seauite or is this
going to be a problem for the Federal
Reserve to rethink how tariffs are
impacting inflation?
>> Yeah, I think it depends a little bit on
how the administration responds with
policy. There are variety of different
tariff authorities that the
administration can use and probably
reimpose significant tariffs to bring
tariff revenue back up to similar levels
to what it's running at now. So I think
from a budget perspective this doesn't
end up being a huge issue fundamentally.
Having said that, we've been in a period
of very low volatility in markets. We're
not getting the economic data due to the
shutdown. Um so this would be an event
that would be a market
volatilityinducing event I think where
people would question you know what do
tariffs look like going forward. So
uncertainty has been falling around
that. I think that would raise
uncertainty again.
>> What if the government doesn't open by
the December meeting?
>> Yeah that is a really interesting
scenario and clearly something that Fed
officials talked about a bit. Um what
chair Powell said is that there's this
growing chorus to be cautious in that
event where you wouldn't get data and
we'd have the December meeting under
those circumstances. Now cautious could
mean two things, right? You could be
cautious and say, well, I should cut
rates 25 basis points because they
should be moving towards neutral. It
sounded maybe more where the committee
was leaning was in the event of no data
and no sign in that you we are getting
weekly jobless claims for instance, no
sign of a major deterioration, maybe
hold rates in December and then wait
until um January, March to make a
decision. I'm very hopeful that the
government's going to reopen by that
time. I'm sure that Fed officials are
also um so we'll have that data.
>> The December meeting has an extra rinko.
got to put out some forecasts. Last week
was easy compared to what's in store in
December. If you had to edit the SCP
right now, what kind of edits would you
take for 26?
>> Yeah, I think what I would be most
interested in is what's going to happen
with the unemployment rate next year.
And again, that's going to depend on
what do we see in the data if that data
are released. If there's no new data
released, then I think a lot of Fed
officials could essentially leave their
forecasts in place um regarding what's
happening with the labor market. And
what Fed officials have emphasized, what
Chair Pal has emphasized is it's not so
much what those point estimates are. Of
course, they matter, but it's the risks
around those point estimates. So, right
now, we're seeing this risk to the
downside to employment. Is that realized
in the data? We need the data.
>> I've heard this happen a few times. The
outlook hasn't changed. The risk around
the outlook has.
>> You mentioned jobless claims. Don't
jobless claims support the idea that
downside risk to employment aren't as
pronounced as some people believe they
are.
>> Well, I think they show us that they
haven't been realized, right? If if we
were realizing the downside risk to
employment, then we would see a spike in
initial jobless claims. We would see
people losing their jobs. We're not
seeing that in the weekly data. So, that
is one comforting thing that we haven't
in that jobless claims data that we're
getting. We haven't had a major
deterioration in the economy. But think
about some of the other things that
we've had in terms of signals on the
economy. We've had the Fed's beige book
which is telling us that in many areas
people aren't really hiring and in some
areas employment is actually going down.
So, that downside risk is still there. I
think we haven't realized the risk. So,
what's the committee stance in December?
Show me why I should cut or show me why
I shouldn't.
>> I I I think it depends on which Fed
official you ask, right? We heard from
Dallas Fed President Logan. We heard
from Cleveland Fed President Hammock.
And they're basically saying, I need to
see something in the data to know why I
should be cutting further. Um, I think
for the committee as a whole, if you
listen to Chair Powell, well, if you
still think that you're modestly
restrictive and you think that risks to
the outlook are balanced in terms of
employment and inflation, you should be
getting back to neutral. Do you need to
cut at that December meeting? It's going
to depend on the data. It's going to
depend on whether that that pace of job
growth is it still running at 29,000 per
month. If it is, I think they're
cutting. If we accelerate back up to
something we're running more like
100,000 per month, that could be a
scenario where the agreement is to Stan
Pat. We saw last week there's just big
divisions and Powell's going to have to
work out how that consensus gets built.
>> Good luck to him. Good luck.
>> Good luck to him. Andrew Hartz, the
city. Andrew, thank you. Lisa, we're
entering that window. entering a window
of a range of estimates on where neutral
is, which is why this gets so much more
trickier into December.
>> There's no risk-free option as Jay
Powell said in this past week's meeting,
and that's because we are getting closer
to that neutral sense. Some people say
we're already there.
>> Coming up next, we'll catch up with Dan
Greenhouse of Solace Alternative Asset
Management. We'll speak to a [music] man
who does not think we're there. Fed
Governor Steven Myron is just around a
corner. Plus, Amanda Linham of Black
Rockck, Brian Bowski of Humalist
Investment Strategies, the [music]
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance up
next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> If things get worse, the Fed will
respond and cut aggressively.
>> They're threading a very fine needle
between their two mandates.
>> Not sure where the gloom about the
economy comes from. We're going to have
a real lag in information going into
that December meeting.
>> We will get a December rate cut, but
nothing in 2026 or 2027.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City [music] this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg Savannah starts right now
and your scores look like this. [music]
Equity futures entering November on a
high and adding some weight to the
October rally. [music] Futures up by a
third of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up
by 0.6 heading into this week. No
payrolls, but plenty of data. ISM
manufacturing, ISM [music] services, and
a key hearing at the Supreme Court this
coming Wednesday,
>> which could potentially overturn some of
the tariffs or at least legal
justification that the president [music]
has used. A real question here about
whether this is a risk factor for bond
markets. If the if the country isn't
getting [music] $400 billion of revenue
each year from the tariffs it has on
does that create a real selloff in
long-term bonds that if using this as
justification for the deficit [music]
isn't that bad. Well, also the other
problem is that they have to start now
refunding it. The chaos this could then
be caused. $90 billion potentially going
back to se the seauite. But then at the
same time, the White House has a number
of avenues they can take with 232s, 301.
There's a number of different trade
sections [music] they can use to enact
similar tariffs. It just will take that
much longer. And then you have to
wonder, does the Fed then look at this
and say, well, we might not get this
tariff [music] induced impact for months
beyond if they need to rewrite how
they're actually going to be adding
[music] tariffs on these goods.
>> The fear that so many people had
regarding tariffs just hasn't
materialized, particularly in fixed
income. Lisa, you mentioned fixed
[music] income bonds. We've said this so
many times. It was bond negative in
April. 6 months later, it's bond
positive. 10-year bond yields around 4%.
>> Yeah. is a justification to keep buying
bonds. The reason why people are saying
you don't have to worry about the US not
paying its debts because it's getting a
stream of [music] income. The truth is
when you take a look at studies both the
inflation related impact hasn't been as
[music] great as people expected. And
frankly the income hasn't been as great
as people expected. When you take a look
at the income from tariffs the actual
effective rate is something more to 12%
rather than the 19% that [music]
effectively would be. At the same time
companies have been passing it along. So
it raises this question. Do you discount
that entirely and look at an economy
that's incredibly confusing and
incredibly bifrocated?
>> Bond yields this morning high by just
about a basis point. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Dan Greenhouse
of Solus Alternative Asset Management as
equities look to add to October gains.
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Marin
joins us issuing a warning over
recession risks and Amanda of Black
Rockck as big tech deepens its AI debts.
We begin this hour with stocks climbing
to kick off a busy month of earnings.
Dan Greenhouse of Solus Alternative
Asset Management writing commentary from
a host of companies are supportive of
the risk on mentality. As long as they
are saying everything is fine, I have
little reason to think otherwise. Dan
joins us now for more. Dan, good
morning.
>> Good morning to you, sir.
>> Which companies are saying everything's
fine?
>> Listen, I I know there's all this
concern about you were talking earlier
with Jim Biano about the K-shaped
market. I don't know, man. I look
through earnings reports and I hear
pretty good things. Uh obviously uh you
have the AI story which we can talk
about in a minute but from the consumer
standpoint I use Visa and Mastercard not
to mention Capital One, American Express
etc. But I use Visa and Mastercard as
real consumer blueprints. They're not
just seeing restaurant sales or travel
or sporting goods. They see obviously
everything and both of them had
incredibly positive things to say about
the consumer. No downturn really at all.
I mean, obviously there's still issues
at the lower income consumer, but when
those two companies tell me, when they
speak the way that they do, I have to
take notice.
>> You know, I joked and you've probably
heard that I call it cherrypicking
season because you can just pick some
companies and tell whatever story you
want. I'm with you. I'm following the
same theme. Consumers are still spending
even though they don't feel good about
the broader economy. We brought up with
Chipotle. Now, I just wonder if that's a
Chipotle story or if that tells you
something about corporate America's
ability to pass on higher costs.
>> So, two two things. I want to get back
to the cherry picking season. Chipotle
seems pretty clear to me to be an
idiosyncratic story. Uh I I don't eat
there regularly at all, although my
daughter increasingly is doing so, but I
have friends that that ate there
pre-COVID and what used to cost them $12
now cost them $19. Not that there is an
inflation everywhere. And there's a the
people I talk to who eat at Chipotle
regularly have a real sense of
dissatisfaction, portion sizes, pricing,
etc., etc. Um but I disagree with the
the idea that this is cherrypicking
season. Yes, if I want to highlight
certain things, you can cherrypick. But
what I have to do as an analyst, as an
investor, as a hedge fund, uh what we
have to do is look at the totality of
the data and you have to put it in sort
of a hierarchy. What do I put the most
weight on? What do I put the least
weight on? And look at a broad swath of
data, government, private sector,
earnings, etc. And yeah, you can point
to this or to that, but what I'm trying
to do and what I think most investors do
is look at it all together. And I think
again, when you look at it all together,
the story is still positive. Well, it's
still positive fueled by AI and fueled
by the fact that a lot of these
companies have really good solid balance
sheets. But what Torson was talking
about with K-shaped market was that
profit margins have increased for the
Magnificent 7 over the past year. They
have declined for the other 493 stocks.
I was looking at a Bank of America study
over the weekend that came out and said
excluding Amazon and Tesla,
discretionary earnings are on pace to
fall 2% in the third quarter versus some
of the gains that you're seeing
elsewhere. There is true discretion that
is being shown by consumers. Does that
worry you?
>> Sure. But uh to to cherrypick, look at
[laughter]
look at TJX and RAW stores doing quite
well. Look at Ralph Lauren. Look at the
auto companies like the auto parts
companies like O'Reilly and AutoZone.
There is certainly everything is not
universally great. And a theme that I've
harped on for the last year or two um is
is yeah, but things are still good
enough. And I you're skeptical of what
I'm saying?
>> No, I carry on. I'm listening to what
you're saying. I'm just thinking to
myself, if that's the case, a rate cut
might be a bigger risk scenario than it
is beneficial if everything is doing
just fine.
>> Well, hold on. Uh so again, getting back
to your interview with Jim Biano, who I
saw before I I I came before I left the
house. Uh he was talking about what
problem is the Fed trying to solve? And
I don't think that's the right way to
think. I mean, Jim is fantastic, but I
don't think that's the right way to
think about it. The question is, is the
current Fed funds rate appropriate? I
and others I know Governor Myron is
coming up after me as he should instead
of before me. Um at 50 basis points
might be too much. Fine. But the
question is whether the Fed funds rate
is too high. And and I think I and
others think that it is a little too
high. Now we've gone some way to
correcting that. But uh could could
another rate cut or two uh be warranted?
I don't I don't think that's crazy.
Again, it's not about solving a problem.
It's about putting the rate where it's
supposed to be.
>> Square this circle. We need more rate
cuts, but everything is really good and
people are cherry-picking if they see
bad.
>> And you just did it again. You use the
word need. I'm not need implies there's
a problem to solve. And I'm not saying
the economy is weak. We need to reduce
rates to stimulate demand. Although it
will help, as you mentioned, auto loans,
consumer cards. I'm arguing where should
the rate be? This is a whole separate
conversation and I don't want to frontr
run Governor Myron who can speak for
himself, but where should the rate be? I
think and have thought it should be a
little lower.
>> How low?
>> I think certainly if you get down uh I'm
a little less sure now. We don't have
the government data and some of the
tariff story might still come to fold.
But I was when we were four and a half,
I was saying somewhere around three and
a half is probably where you could head
and and take a pause.
>> Since you were watching Jim Biano, you
also heard him talk about the fact that
the Fed needs the government data, but
doesn't think the market does. Have you
been just fine mudding along without BLS
data? Yeah, I don't find we were talking
uh in the green room before. I have
everything I need. Andrew Hollen Horse
and I I have everything I need. And
again, the you get National Association
of Realtors, National Assoc National
Association of Homebuilders, you get all
the private sector data. Would I like
more data? Of course, but I have plenty.
>> Payrolls just hasn't been particularly
relevant to the direction of the market.
Lost count of how many times we brought
that up on this program. Even if we had
payrolls and it carried on decelerating,
would it be instructive for the
direction of the S&P 500?
>> The AI story is so dominant right now. I
on TV we always debate what's more
important, AI or the Fed? AI or the Fed?
I think the answer is unquestionably AI.
And and the best part about this last
earning season is you're starting to see
it get used in a in a productivity
enhancing way that you haven't
previously. So, real quick, um, Amazon
talked about Rufus now doing $10 billion
of incremental sales. Um, Google said
people are searching more. Facebook
talked about a 5% increase in
engagement. Uh, Microsoft the co-pilot
adoption, but when you step away from
the from the big companies, you get a
ton of other companies. Uh, in terms of
sales, Caterpillar power generation
sales up a third. Amphanol sales up
130%. Verdives backlog is up 30%.
Pterodine said second half revenue is
50% higher will be 50% higher than they
thought three months ago. So you're
seeing this work its way throughout the
economy uh in terms of sales. And then
PPG said they designed a new clear code
product using generative AI and their
own internal data. Visa talked about an
AI generated commercial that they're
doing something that Colgate talked a
lot more using AI content. Um, and
there's any co-star and and booking and
and Hilton Grand Vacations all talked
about AI helping keep people increase
engagement, drive sales. This is having
a real tangible effect on the economy
right now.
>> So, is a cheat sheet if a company
mentions AI three times on their
earnings call, buy the stock. And if
they don't mention it, avoid at all
costs.
>> I don't see I don't think that's a fair
simplification of what I'm saying. I I
there are plent when I go through the
transcripts using Bloomberg's fantastic
document analyzer. Thank you. [laughter]
Form uh there are a number of companies
that just say the word AI and don't
really have anything to say about it.
Oh, we're going to use it. I'm talking
about [laughter]
uh companies that are like again PPG
designed a product. Visa is using it to
to uh do a commercial. A number of
companies are talking about engagement
going up, time spent, more views, more
listings viewed, etc., etc. There are
some companies that are not just saying
it but are actually implementing it in a
tangible, observable, measurable way.
>> We got to go. You went first, but he
gets more time.
>> Understandably so.
>> Good to see you, so you should. Dan
Greenhouse of Solos, Alternative Asset
Management. Thank you very much. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide.
Here's your Bloomberg brief. Our first
story, China criticizing the Japanese
Prime Minister Sai Takichi for meeting
with Taiwanese officials on the
sidelines of the Apex summit. Takayichi
posting on X about the [music] talk
saying she looks forward to deepening
cooperation with Taipei. Elsewhere,
President Donald Trump saying he will
not attend Supreme Court arguments this
[music] week over the legality of his
tariffs. The court will hear on an
appeal of a lower court's ruling that
many of his liberation day tariffs
exceeded the president's emergency
powers. And finally, the US allowing
Microsoft to ship the latest Nvidia
chips to the UAE for the first time.
Microsoft confirming the news to the
Financial Times. The announcement comes
after President Trump struck a deal
[music] back in May for the UAE to build
a new AI data center campus in Abotappi.
That's quite the development.
>> This is quite a development. And you see
the Microsoft executive, the CEO coming
out and telling the Financial Times, we
had to go through really strict [music]
requirements in order to get those
export licenses. And now they're
starting to flow. Next up, the Crown
Prince will be in Washington DC this
month. And I imagine you're going to see
more of those export licenses starting
to flow out of the commerce department.
>> Nvidia up again this morning. Up next on
the program, recession risks.
>> We are in good shape, but I think that
there are sectors of the economy that
[music] are in recession.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with the Federal
Reserve Governor Steven from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Just a flavor
of the price action, a snapshot this
Monday morning. Equity futures positive
by 0.4% [music] on a six-month winning
streak on the S&P 500. The longest going
back to August [music] of 2021 on the
last 100. It's month seven looking for
month eight. Up by 0.7% this morning.
That's the equity story. And in the bond
market, yields high by a single basis
point across the curve. Twos out to 30s,
10 this morning, just north of 4% at
4.09. 09 and senus this morning in focus
[music] recess recession risks.
>> I believe that we are in a transition
period here. If we are contracting
[music] spending then I would think
inflation would be dropping. If
inflation is dropping then the Fed
should [music] be cutting rates. We are
in good shape but I think that there are
sectors of the economy that are in
recession.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Mahren
warning of a possible downturn in the
[music] economy if Fed policy remains
restrictive. Marren taking the most
dovish side of a divided Fed casting the
lone vote for a 50 basis point rate cut
at the Fed's October meeting. I'm
pleased to say for his first interview
broadcast interview since that
conversation at the Federal Reserve, the
Fed Governor Steven Marin joins us now
for more. Governor Marin, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Hey, it's good to see you as always,
sir. So, let's spend some time. How did
you approach the committee meeting just
last week and what was the argument for
50 basis points? So, I approached it the
same way I approached the first one,
which is that I think that the Fed is
too restrictive. I think that neutral is
quite a ways below where current policy
is. And uh given my uh rather more
sanguin outlook on inflation than some
of the other members of the committee, I
don't see a reason for keeping policy as
restrictive for a long period of time as
we are. The longer you keep policy
restrictive, the more you run the risk
that monetary policy itself causes a
downturn in the economy.
>> What was interesting about last week, as
you know, is the descent cut both ways.
We also had this argument from President
Smith of Kansas City Fed who put out a
long statement. I've cherrypicked a
quote. Forgive me. I see the starts of
policy as being only modestly
restrictive. Financial market conditions
appear to be easy across many metrics.
When you heard that kind of argument,
what was the counterpoint to what he's
saying in markets?
>> Yeah. So, I'd say a couple things. First
of all, I'd say that financial markets
are driven by a lot of things. Uh not
just monetary policy. They're driven, of
course, in part by monetary policy, but
there's a lot of things that drive
financial markets. For example, I think
on this program you probably spent a lot
of time thinking about AI and new
technologies. If you have AI or a new
technology, it could push financial
markets higher, which would look like an
easing of financial conditions, but that
doesn't necessarily tell you anything
about the stance of monetary policy.
Indeed, very often in response to a
supply shock, positive supply shock,
although of course it depends what kind
of supply shock. You might think that
the appropriate sense of monetary policy
would be lower and not tighter, all else
equal. But of course, there's a lot of
sort of whatifs and and and thinking
about the the type of the supply shock.
But I think that it's a mistake to look
at financial conditions and sort of
conclude something automatically about
the stance of monetary policy. And I
also want to point out that some of the
financial conditions that look the
easiest, things like the stock market,
things like uh, you know, sort of
various parts of credit spreads, you
know, those are not necessarily the
financial conditions that feed the most
into economic activity. Yes, the stock
market and credit spreads matter. They
matter a lot. But then you sort of think
about something like housing. I think
housing matters a lot more for the
cyclical position of the economy. And
it's not that these things don't matter,
but it's that they're only part of the
picture. And if you look at financial
conditions that affect housing, I think
they're quite tighter. You look at
financial conditions that are affecting
parts of the private credit market that
also looks tighter. And I wonder if what
we're seeing now in some of the
distresses that you see in private
markets means that financial conditions
have actually been tighter, but it's
been masked by the fact that we don't
get marks for those on a regular basis.
>> So, Governor, I think I want to give you
some time. I think we should give you
some time on a central argument of yours
that this year you believe policy is
actually passively tightened through
2025. I don't think that's an argument
I've heard many people make. Can you
just spend some time fleshing that out?
What do you mean by that?
>> Sure. So, so my my perspective is that
there's been a number of shocks that
have hit the economy driven in large
part by economic policy from not not
from the Fed, from outside of the Fed
that pushed neutral rates higher last
year and lower this year. And so I think
if you look where my neutral rate is,
it's not that I'm out of bounds for
where the rest of the committee is
unneutral. It's just that I flipped from
having one of the highest neutrals last
year to now one of the lowest neutral
rates. And that's driven by things like
population growth, right? It's driven by
things like fiscal deficits. And if you
think about population growth, right,
that's normally considered to be one of
the biggest drivers of neutral rates.
And it's part of the reason why people
think that neutral usually moves very
very slowly because population growth
changes only very very slowly as new
technologies and cultural trends drive
people to have fewer kids over time. But
we experienced in the last few years 30
years worth of population growth change
in only three years. Right? When you
look at the the rate of population
growth uh it changed more in the last 3
years than it did in the previous 30
years in both directions. It roundtriped
completely. And so if the drivers if the
drivers of changes in the neutral rate
accelerate over time, it would only make
sense to me that the neutral rate itself
would change more rapidly over time as
well. And so that's pushed neutral
higher last year and lower this year,
which means that policy is passively
tightened because what matters for the
stance of policy is where you are
relative to the neutral rate. And if
neutral is here and policyy's up here,
you're very tight. If neutral's here and
policyy's down here, you're very loose.
But if you stay where you are and then
neutral goes down, you've passively
tightened because the neutral rate has
shifted. And so policy has grown tighter
over the course of the year. Now, it's
not the case that you would expect to
see a significant downturn in the
economy immediately as a result of that
because monetary policy works with lags.
It hits the economy with long and
variable lags as we all know. But if you
maintain that very restrictive stance of
policy for a long period of time, you
really increase the chances that those
lags come to manifest and that monetary
policy then itself induces a downturn in
the economy.
>> Why wasn't your descent bigger? You were
talking about a 50 basis point cut that
you would have preferred to see in the
September meeting. Why didn't you go for
a 75 basis
basis point cut descent uh last month?
>> Of course. So, look, you know, I think
that we're I think that we're a fair way
from neutral and I think that we could
get there a bit faster. I could imagine
getting there in a series of 50 clips.
Uh I don't think it's the case that we
need to get there in more than that
because I don't think that I don't think
the economy is dysfunctional right now.
I don't think that financial markets are
dysfunctional right now. I don't think
we need to move even faster than that
for those for those reasons. Uh if I
did, then you know I would have no
problem voting for voting for for bigger
cuts, but I think sort of getting there
in 50s instead of 25s is is is fine.
>> So you would be open to dissenting again
for a 50 basis point cut if the rest of
the committee wasn't around for that uh
next month or in December rather.
>> Yeah. Well, I don't want to I don't want
to commit to that because a lot can
happen between now and the next meeting.
We're getting a lot of data, I hope,
between now and then, not only data
about the near-term, but data about the
recent past as well that we don't have.
So things could change, but if things
play out according to my forecast, then
uh then then yes, I would.
>> Governor, do you think your advocacy for
a 50 B cut is hardening the opposition
to cuts at all?
>> Uh I don't think so. Well, I think
everybody is everybody is doing their
own analysis of the economy and and
inflation and the labor market and and
financial markets too and uh coming to a
conclusion and uh you know I don't think
anybody is necessarily changing their
mind uh sort of to not support a a cut
because I just because I want to cut
more.
>> Is there a lot of discussion at the Fed
at about the fact that you're all doing
your own analysis but what data are you
all using if we're in the still in the
middle of a government shutdown 34 days
today?
>> Yes. So there's a lot of there's a lot
of talk about that. Let me say a couple
things about that. First of all, you
know, it's my perspective that being
excessively data dependent makes you
backward-looking because the data are
always backward-looking because of
collection lags because the amount of
time that you're doing comparisons over,
right? And given monetary policy takes
lags to hit the economy. You want to be
forward-looking. So you want to make
policy based on your forecast. Now there
are times when you might not have a lot
of confidence in your forecast. And so
you need to be data dependent. But you
should be data dependent only to the
extent that you don't have confidence in
your forecast. My perspective is that we
know the size of the shocks that have
hit the economy this year. Things like
population growth, that's a known known
quantity. We know what it does to the
economy. We know what it does to
neutral. We know the size of that. It's
not a it's not a mystery. So therefore,
I have a lot of uh a lot of confidence
in in in my forecast. And therefore, to
the extent that we would get data that
would make me change my forecast, I
would then change my policy outlook.
Right? So the question is, am I missing
data because of the government shutdown
that would lead me to change my
forecast? And given so much of my
forecast for inflation depends on the
housing market and and depends on the
housing market, I would assume that I
would see that in the reporting that
Bloomberg and others do even if I'm not
getting data in the short term. Now
something like that lasts a couple of
months, right? Can I make can I continue
to sort of have this degree of
confidence if we go six months without
data? Absolutely not. So I do think this
is something people are attentive to.
And there's also alternative data. As
you guys are aware, I find the
alternative data on inflation to be not
super useful. I do find it to be more
useful on the labor market. And when you
sort of look at alternative data on the
labor market, you see data that's
consistent with continual ebbing of of
demand, which again is a signal that
policy is too tight. If the decline in
hiring was a result of negative supply
shocks from immigration, you would see
higher wages and you would see and you
would see firms and people giving
answering surveys in a way that
indicated that jobs were plentiful or or
it was difficult to find workers. From
the firm perspective,
>> you pointed to developments in private
credit as well as evidence that we're
restrictive. Perhaps it was the fault of
our peers that this didn't come up much
at the news conference. I was somewhat
surprised. Did it come much come up much
in the meeting, the two-day meeting last
week? Well, I mentioned it uh at the
meeting as as as a as a reason why it
was uh potentially a mistake to make uh
to make to make uh very confident
inferences from the stance of equity
markets to the stance of monetary
policy. Um but uh other than that, I
think that sort of folks were focused on
on private credit as a financial
stability risk. Uh and sort of thinking
about how much do we care about this?
What what are the risks? You know, you
know, what are the risks? Where could
this go? just sort of analyzing it from
a financial stability perspective.
Whereas I was making the point as well
that there's a chance that because we
don't get marks on these things very
frequently that distresses are actually
greater than we thought they were.
Especially when you think about the
share of credit that has been created in
private markets in the last few years.
You know, it slowed down recently, but
over the last few years it's been a
greater share of credit that's been
extended into the economy. And so it
could be that we're just not seeing it.
>> Do you think we're missing something
here? because so many guests come on the
program and say it's idiosyncratic, just
signs of isolated fraud, not a big deal,
not systemic, not broad enough. Do you
share that view?
>> So, you know, look, I I I think that
probably at the end of the day, uh
that's what it is. However, I do want to
make the point that when you get series
of seemingly uncorrelated non-sistatic
problem, sorry, non non-sistatic issues
like that, it can be an indication that
monetary policy is restrict is
restrictive. We've seen this in the
past. When you have a series of
seemingly uncorrelated
uh uncorrelated credit problems that had
been masked for a while and then
suddenly come to light, it tells you
something about the stance of monetary
policy.
>> Governor, it's good to see you. I know
you've got a flight to catch, so thanks
for making some time for us this
morning. We appreciate it. Thank you,
sir.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Governor Steven Marin there of the
Federal Reserve on the decision just
last week and that descent to push not
for 25, but to push for 50.
>> You know what he just was talking about
there with private credit is really
interesting and it's nuanced. It's not
just about cockroaches. It's about the
credit risk being in an unseen place
[music] and so people can be more
sanguin because they're looking at it in
the old places, not the new one where it
might be actually accumulating.
>> We'll talk about credit next on the
program. Amanda Linham of Black Rockck
joins us as big tech [music] takes on
more debt. That conversation up next
[music]
stocks this morning positive by 0.3% on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq 100 by 0.6
Six about two hours out from the opening
bout with your morning movers. [music]
Let's cross over to Danny Burgerer for
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. How's that feeling of deals
Monday coming back starting in AI?
Another AI deal. This time it is
Microsoft buying cloud providing uh
cloud from IR the Australianbased
company. A $9.7 billion deal. As part of
that they'll get access to Nvidia
processors. And as part of it IR has
agreed to buy some of the equipment for
the data center from Dell. So you can
see Dell shares are up 4.4%. 4%. In
another deal announced this morning,
Kimberly Clark will be buying Ken View.
That's the maker of goods like Tylenol.
Shares of Ken View, surging 19% off that
deal. Kimberly Clark falls. Ken View has
been struggling since it was spun off
from J&J. It's had a lot of activist
investors swirling around. The most
recent drama being from President Trump
and his comments about Tylenol. So, that
will certainly introduce a twist as
Kimberly Clark pursues this deal,
valuing the company at $40 billion.
Finally, just a little bit of sellside
action to round things off. UBS
upgrading Cisco shares rallying off the
back of that, saying it is about
AIdriven demand. That AI infrastructure
demand will be good for Cisco. Their
price target implies a 20% rally.
[music] John,
>> Danny, thank you. The stock is up by
1.4%. More from Danny in the next hour
on a radar this morning. China
suspending some rare earth curbs and
terminating investigations into US chip
companies. The move coming after the
White House announced a one-year pause
on some reciprocal tariffs on Chinese
goods. Elsewhere, staffing issues
triggering multiple ground stops at
Newark airport in New Jersey this
weekend. These stops causing delays and
forcing the cancellation of more than
100 flights. Air traffic controllers are
working without pay during the
government shutdown. And finally, the
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Min
defending his call for bigger rate cuts.
Myron saying some of his fellow board
members are overly concerned with
inflation and tighter policy could bring
the risk of a recession.
I think that the Fed is too restrictive.
I think that neutral is quite a ways
below where current policy is. And uh
given my uh rather more sanguin outlook
on inflation than some of the other
members of the committee, I don't see a
reason for keeping policy as restrictive
for a long period of time as we are. The
longer you keep policy restrictive, the
more you run the risk that monetary
policy itself causes a downturn in the
economy.
>> Governor Marin did not buy the argument
on financial conditions that came from
the Kansas City Fed and that descent in
the other direction in the last week.
His argument was really interesting.
He's saying, "Look, you can't look at
overall conditions and some of the AI
boom and the related uh tech rally that
you've seen in stock and bond markets is
evidence of a real loose financial
conditions type of environment." He
pointed to private credit and he said,
"Look, there is weakness that is
emerging, but it isn't visible in the
same way because that has been the
expansion." So, in the past, we might
have been looking at things like high
yield bond spreads. we can't do that as
sort of the arbiter of weakness in the
same way because there is this buffer in
the private credit sphere that is not as
visible and might be experiencing some
weakness
>> and he says the problems can actually
come about because of stance of current
policy I also thought it was interesting
he said he finds alternative inflation
data to not be super useful so when it
comes to the government shutdown he
thinks he can almost muddy along it felt
like when it comes to what's going on in
the labor department in terms of where
the hiring and firing is but he says in
terms of inflation that's a problem. So
it might be really difficult for this
Fed if the opposition is more focused on
inflation right now and you do not have
any more CPI data.
>> We can still focus on the labor market
this week. Difficult to focus on
inflation. I'm with you this week ISM
manufacturing services the employment
components of that ADP job openings too.
I know that's somewhat backward looking
of course a couple of months backward
looking but we've got something at least
the coming week
>> and frankly a lot of people have said
look it's still this low fire lowire
churn dynamic. At the same time, you do
see signs of weakness and you do say,
okay, Chipotle is one example where
young people aren't spending $20 for a
burrito anymore. But on the other hand,
you are seeing this even in things like
Kimberly Clark. People are being
discretionary when it comes to what
toilet paper they want. Maybe they don't
want two ply. Maybe they're just going
to go for one ply.
>> I'm not going to weigh in on that at
all. I I'll take a miss. I think we've
all got our own views on that. Of
course, very personal. [laughter] Where
are we going? Equity futures on the S&P
500 this morning just about positive.
Building on the big gains for the month
of October as we come into the month of
November. Turning to tech, Alphabet
returning to Europe's debt market for
the second time this year, looking to
sell 3 billion in euro denominated bonds
to fund its AI expansion. The
announcement coming after Meta sold $30
billion of corporate bonds just last
week. Amanda Linham with Black Rockck
joins us now for more. Amanda, good
morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> The amount of debt that's coming to
market from tech.
>> Yes,
>> this is a big development we need to
track. How are you and the team tracking
things?
>> Uh, so thank you for having me. It is uh
I would say it's a pretty big paradigm
shift. If you look at data from DLogic,
uh US IGTH issuance has already
surpassed all of the full years on
record so far in 2025. Um so this is
something that is actually gaining
further momentum. We think there's more
room to run. Um there are a couple
things that I would note. One, in USG,
we look at gross issuance and net
issuance and we also look at gross
leverage and net debt. The reason I
mention that is that a lot of these
companies, not all of them, but some of
the largest companies are actually still
in a net cash position. So, they're
issuing debt, but they actually still
have more cash on their balance sheet
relative to debt. Now, the historical
precedent for that was prior to the 2017
tax reform, a lot of that cash was
trapped overseas. So, USIG companies
used to allow their cash to build
overseas and then they would have to pay
taxes on if it were repatriated. Now,
that's a different backdrop. I say that
because there's a lot of focus on kind
of the releveraging of the tech uh
sector, but our view is that there is a
very long way to run because not only is
gross leverage really modest in this
sector, net leverage is actually
negative because again they're still in
a net cash position. So what that means
is a lot of this capex will be funded by
a combination of public debt markets,
US, Europe, private credit, um some
maybe some fiscal plans as well. U but
there's a a lot of room to run. And I
think the binding constraint will be one
is there over the next few years a
disruptive technology that kind of
derails that or is there ongoing true
demand under the surface that kind of
builds that productivity and that
economic value added and then the
binding constraint will be the rating
agencies. This actually reminds me a lot
of the pharma industry back in 2009.
There was a paradigm shift of a lot of
mergers between pharma and biotech. A
lot of companies actually took active
downgrades to their debt ratings
purposefully and it actually on a
smaller scale reminds me a lot of that.
You know, there's this discussion that's
increasingly nuanced, which is there's
not a fear that Meta is going to go
bankrupt in the near term. There's not a
fear that Amazon or Alphabet is going to
really run into financial problems.
There is, however, a feeling that there
are an increasing number of related
companies that are levering up in order
to build out data centers or build out
other types of uh infrastructure that
are going to run into problems. I mean,
how much are you worried about that
leverage that is also building in tandem
with the behemoths? Well, I think again
going back to the point, these are
companies that are generating a
significant amount of cash. They have a
lot of liquidity on their balance sheet
and I think they're making a calculus
that they have to invest in this
paradigm shift. Um, and they really
don't have an option not to, right? So,
there may be winners and losers of this.
Um, perhaps the folks that are
investing, they may not be the biggest
beneficiaries of the technology, right?
There may be other parts of the value
chain that benefit more. But I think the
fact of the matter is the market is
comfortable. It it again it reminds me a
lot of pharma and biotech. A lot of
times management teams are making bets
on drug discoveries that haven't
happened yet. They're issuing 30 or
40year bonds after patent cliffs expire.
These are just bets on management teams
that they will see through um the the
the the new regime and and have to
navigate through it. But I think there's
a lot of financial cushion in this
sector and and I don't think we're
anywhere near the point where investors
are are thinking of stopping funding it
because you can see the demand from from
the new issues. Steven Myron was just on
Fed Governor uh talking about how
financial conditions don't necessarily
tell the whole story and that they can
mask a lot of pain that you're seeing
elsewhere and he pointed to the private
credit space and he said that that has
been the biggest growth area and that is
an area where you don't see visibility
into the marks that you have currently
and you could have some potential
pitfalls and we are seeing anecdotes to
that degree. Not saying are there
cockroaches that are going to undermine
the whole system, but do you think
that's a valid argument that high yield
bond spreads aren't going to be the
canary in the coal mine? It's in the
private credit sphere and it's not very
visible.
>> So I agree with his point that aggregate
financial conditions are um not
representative of everything that is
going on in the economy. I don't think
it's limited to private credit. However,
if you look at for example triple C's
and high yield, median interest coverage
is already below one times, right? So
that is a that is a really non-existent
financial cushion in aggregate for a
sector to navigate a higher cost of
debt. You see it in commercial real
estate uh parts of commercial real
estate class C office haven't kept up.
You see it in consumer credit ages 20 to
29 cohorts with student loans. They're
not homeowners. They're not equity
owners. They're really struggling. So I
think the point is is that yes financial
conditions in aggregate using an input
of five measures uh have eased since the
April peak. uh but under the surface
whether you look at leverage loan
borrowers high yield private credit
commercial real estate consumer credit
there are pockets that haven't kept pace
again it speaks to the bifurcated and
dispersed economy that we have um so I
would agree that actually financial
conditions in aggregate don't tell the
whole story I don't think it's isolated
however to private credit um I I also
think what he was pointing to is that
private credit has changed the
transmission of monetary policy through
the economy uh private credit has
stepped in historically when other
traditional parts of lending have pulled
back bank, CNI lending, the the debt
capital markets. Um, in our view, that's
not a bad thing. Uh, right, because
private credit has filled a void. There
are 44,000 private companies across the
US, the UK, and Europe. And so, it's a
significant economic opportunity to fund
those companies.
>> The counterargument to all of that,
Bremo, if you really think about it, is
that the boom in private credit came in
a rising interest rate environment. So,
can you really draw a link between Fed
policy and the direction of private
credit? Because it didn't work one way.
What does it work the other?
>> This is the issue, right? At a certain
point, you could argue if they're
feeling weakness, that's not a bad thing
because you're still seeing it deploy. I
mean, Apollo and Aries reported earnings
today and the earnings are doing great.
So, it's not as though they're about to
struggle. You have to wonder that
counterfactual that you're just talking
about. Is that a positive in terms of
the resilience of the economy?
>> This is the point, Amanda, that Lisa's
been really hitting the drum on
repeatedly, the use case of lowering
interest rates. What's it addressing?
What's the channel?
>> Right. Well, actually, I I think it's
it's a great point. If you look at say
going back to the leverage loan market,
leverage loan defaults peaked in
November of 2024 at 7.7%. That's a
really high number. That's on pace with
the pandemic. And that's issuer weighted
Moody's, right? But but but the point is
is that we've already had some
incremental funding relief for floating
rate borrowers thanks to the 150 basis
points that the Fed has already
delivered. I do think there are pockets
of the market that would welcome that.
If you're a younger consumer, you have
floating rate credit cards, you have
student loans. Yes, of course, every
incremental cut helps. Um but in general
I think we feel comfortable that we're
kind of past peak um interest rate
headwinds. We're probably past peak
trade policy uncertainty and we think
we're probably u on scope for a
reaceleration and growth and that leaves
us comfortable with credit risk.
>> Do you think that if the Fed were to cut
rates it would force you to take risk
you're uncomfortable taking in order to
get the same kind of yield.
>> Uh I do think I do think there is a
delicate trade-off between the yield on
offer in a wide range of corporate
credit markets um and and investor
demand. So for example, US IG yields are
now below 5%, high yield yields are now
below 7% in aggregate. Um I do think in
a structurally higher yield environment,
there is a bit more demand for
spreadbased product. But in terms of
lenders kind of throwing caution to the
wind because rates are falling, you have
to keep in mind that especially in the
private credit market, these loans are
are made and are staying on those
lenders balance sheets for the life of
the loan. Um very different than say in
the financial crisis when they were
syndicated out. So the risk calculus to
me isn't going to be buffeted by an
incremental 25 or 50 basis points of
rate cuts.
>> Amanda, good to see you as always.
Thanks for being here. Amanda Lam there
of Black Rockck with equities this
morning positive by about 0.3%. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Energy Secretary Chris Wright saying US
nuclear weapons testing will stop short
of actual warhead tests for now.
President [music] Donald Trump last week
ordering the Pentagon to start testing
nuclear weapons in response to other
nations programs. [music] Elsewhere,
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson saying
SNAP food benefits could restart as
early as Wednesday. Two federal judges
ruling Friday that the [music] Trump
administration must use emergency funds
to pay the benefits which help feed 42
million Americans. [music] And finally,
Egypt opening its $1 billion museum
showcasing the wonders of the ancient
past. The Grand Egyptian Museum is the
world's largest museum, focusing on a
single civilization and houses over
100,000 artifacts from across seven
millennia. Very cool. That's your
Bloombo brief. Up next, looking [music]
for an everything rally.
>> Right now, it's the AI trade. The
direction of travel is up. You know,
it's an everything rally here [music]
for investors. Yes, this year ends
likely higher.
>> A conversation up next with Brian Bowski
of Homeless Investment Strategies. Live
from New York City. [music] You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P
[music] 500 firm are here by about a
quarter of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 up by
0.6. If [music] you switch up the board
and turn to the bond market, plenty of
data through the week. ISM manufacturing
services ADP jolts [music] yields up two
basis points, 4.09%.
Two-year bond yield shifting higher last
week. Chairman Pal pushing back against
the [music] prospect of interest rate
cuts. Yields up another one basis point
at the front end of the curve.
>> Yeah. And this question of if it is
foggy, do you slow down or is it not so
foggy because we get other data and they
can kind of go with that. Look, [music]
we didn't get a lot of information
except I keep going back to what Bob
Michael told you, which is essentially
this is a Fed chair pow that has lost
control over the Federal Reserve and
that was the biggest takeaway from last
week.
>> Lane Duck Caesar for Chair [music] Pal
into May of next year and a Savannah.
This morning we turn to the equity
market looking for an everything rally.
>> Right now [music] it's the AI trade. The
direction of travel is up. You know,
it's an everything rally here. It's now
taken on a a life of its own with as the
Fed cuts into increased earnings
estimates and an economy that is not
just stabilizing, but growth estimates
are ticking up higher for next year
[music] and you're in this really you're
in a liquid situation for investors.
Yes, this year ends likely higher.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Big
tech putting the S&P 500 on a six-month
winning streak. Bran Bowski, the founder
and CEO of Homeless Investment Strategy,
saying stocks have more room to run.
He's calling for the S&P 500 to hit 7K
by year end. Brian joins us now for
more. Brian, good morning.
>> Good to see you, sir.
>> Thank you so much for having
>> congratulations. Unshackled by corporate
culture. What's what's the new approach
going to be?
>> Uh, well, it's going to be the same same
old song and dance for Bellski. I'm just
going to continue to do my best for my
clients and their clients, and we're
going to try to give our best market
views. And, you know, fortunately,
unfortunately, this is my 36th year
doing this. I started when I was 8 years
old clearly and I've always said this
when you look at the market I've always
tried to think about how are you going
to invest in the market you know so many
people that do what I do they want to
make the big market call and the index
call and so our first rule of investing
is like stocks lead earnings which lead
the uh lead the economy and the stock
market is a market of stocks so when I
like for instance when I look at tech
and I've been bullish on tech for a long
time uh what are the parts of tech where
I want to be in and you know rule number
three of investing ing is you don't have
to know everything. So many people in
our business, they think they know
everything. They need to be the smartest
person in the room. So our tagline at
Humalis is investing with conviction and
humility. And the conviction part of it
is if there's 500 stocks in the S&P 500
and we run a large cap focused
portfolio. We own 50. I think I have
pretty good knowledge of the 50, theund,
the 450. I don't need to know all of
those. So that's kind of how we've
thought for all these years.
>> What do you need to know right now? What
are you focused on? Well, in my notes
preparing, I I'm I'm a little bit
worried that there's too many bears or
too many bulls right now. And I'm I'm
very self-deprecating and and um and I
think about Bellski. You're starting to
you're starting to firm at the top of
the market. Well, for one, I don't think
the top of the market's here. I mean,
we've been on record since 2009 2010
that the US stock market has entered a
25-y year secular bull market. People
thought we're polyiana and always
bullish and blah blah blah. in that time
period from now, from then until now,
we've had several cyclical bulls,
cyclical bears. We're going to have
another cyclical bear before the end of
this as well, everybody. Um, but
everyone kind of jumping on top here.
Um, I think that's a little dangerous,
but at the end of the day, we're
investors. And so, what we're going to
continue to do is run value money, run
dividend growth money, run small midcap
money. And Alicia is right in the hit
before uh that before we spoke, we are
going to see a broadening out of the
market. I think we're heading into to
Goldilocks. I think we're heading into
where you have to own a little bit of
everything, not just tech. Not at the
forsake of selling tech, but continue to
be a fundamental bottoms up investor.
Let the market do what the market does.
>> So, can you uh develop that, especially
given the fact that you're seeing profit
expansion disproportionately among the
big tech players? It hasn't been in the
discretionary shares to the same degree.
So even when you look at the
fundamentals of a lot of these
companies, what gives you confidence,
that's going to shift and that could be
leadership.
>> So one of the things we've looked at for
for decades are earnings revisions. We
use a diffusion index, Lisa, where we
look at FY2 versus FY1 and the and the
relative change in earnings. That's what
kept us bullish all this year. We're
starting to see an relative improvement.
Remember, you don't buy at the top or
sell at the bottom. when you start to
see things improving and we're seeing
things improve on the other area in
within the other areas in the market in
terms of broadening out with respect to
the cyclicals is a great question. So if
you're heading into a period where
10-year treasuries are going to be more
steady and a period where you're going
to have a broadening out of the market.
We want investors and the way that we're
looking at portfolios, we want to become
more cyclical in consumer discretionary
and more cyclical in industrials. If you
take two steps back and look at where
the performance has been in consumer
discretionary, especially this year,
it's all Tesla and Amazon and more
defensive areas like TJ Maxx, great
company. We've owned it for a long time.
But we I think we want to get a little
bit more cyclical in our consumer
discretionary holdings and industrials,
too. We've had a great run in some of
the international industrials, but I
think it's going to be more domestic.
That's what's going to I think do much
better.
>> I love that you've always been called
the biggest bull on Wall Street and you
start a fund that basically means humble
and you're coming out here and you're
talking about a price target. I think of
something like 7,000 for the end of the
year. I'm just wondering, could you see
a price target for the S&P 500 at the
end of this year and next year that
isn't far away from where we are now,
but potential for real outperformance if
you go to some of the lagards of the
past year.
>> So, believe it or not, I mean, we are
very convicted and not what we say and
how we communicate.
>> I'm shocked.
>> Shocked, right? [laughter] We we say
what we mean. We mean what we say. We in
our entire career have set up
analytically and personally to
underpromise and overd deliver. If you
put out a big number, it's always hard
to meet that. We've said very clearly,
we said it during COVID and we said it
again this year with all the silliness
with respect to the tariffs. Market
targets are an academic practice. You
are in life, you do not run your life
through a spreadsheet. You run your life
through what's happening, right? And so
I think that's where many of my cohorts
got wrong. We put out a 7,000 bullcase
in our year- ahead piece um that we
published last November. We said the
bullcase for 2025 was 7,000. So, we've
been there since November. Now, the
bullcase is beginning to shape up.
Earnings, as you said, are starting to u
go. The operating performance of
companies in terms of return on equity,
return on invested capital is beginning
to turn. That looks all really, really
great and all part of our process for
several years. So, I'm there's no doubt
that the market's probably going to
eclipse 7,000. But if you go back into
the historical normaly, if we can ever
be normal in this business again, um I
think we're going to head back into at
at worst high singledigit low double
digit performance, three and a half to
four and a half on the 10-year Treasury,
double digit earnings, that's a pretty
good place for for stocks. And I think
as investors kind of come back into
really the best house in an improving
neighborhood, US is the best house in an
improving neighborhood. Used to be the
best house in a bad neighborhood in
terms of the rest of the world. I think
investors are going to calm down and use
equities as a as a place for stability
relative to their other assets.
>> When you say silliness of tariffs, do
you mean tariffs are silly or do you
mean the about face we saw from the
administration?
>> I'm thinking the silliness in terms of
the reactions from investors. So for
instance, we were we were at Beimo at
the time who's been a amazing partner
for the last 13 and a half years. It it
was just an amazing place to be for all
that time. And we were literally
receiving emails and and calls from
advisers in Canada saying their clients
want to sell us. And what we said in a
research report said we said we own what
we own. We own what we own. If the
market goes down and these stocks go
down, we're going to buy more because we
believe in the names that we own. And so
that created in a situation where fear
was driving things. You should never
live your life by fear and you should
never run your portfolio by fear. So
that created again very humbled to say
that that was our best quarterly
performance in the history of running
money second quarter this year and so we
think that anytime you do that so the
silliness is exactly that in terms of
this exogenous type of talk what do you
think really drives sentiment national
pride or price action?
>> That's a that's a really really great
question. Well, we remember well if you
take two steps back and look at the
what's happened and we becoming more
populous around the world and I think
sentiment is driven by driven by again
life is like investing investing is like
life. It's not so much what's happening
in terms of the stock market. If you
walk down the street uh in and our great
partners in Canada, you walk down the
street in Blur Street in Toronto and you
say, "Hey, do you know that the Canadian
stock market is outperforming the US
stock market?" Canadians go, "Oh, I
don't know. I didn't know." They have no
idea because they're reading the Globe
and Mail. They're watching the TV.
They're scared. So, it's sentiment. And
then they're talking to their We're
having Thanksgiving in the United States
coming up. People are not going to
understand that the stock market's at
all time highs. I think two generations
from now, my grandson's children are
going to be talking about this stock
market. They're going to be talking
about the stock market that this is this
is one for the generations that that the
majority people, remember, the majority
of people between 2009 and and COVID
missed this market.
>> Yep.
>> They missed it.
>> Looking forward to tracking it with you.
>> Thank you so Congratulations, sir.
Thanks for being here. Thank you. Brian
Bowski of Himalist Investment
Strategies. When he called me up and we
talked about this new name and I said,
"Well, what does it mean?" And then he
told me, I burst out laughing.
[laughter]
>> Well, you know, because he's very
bullish. He's got a lot of conviction,
but humble, you know, that's how I think
of you. I think of you as a humble,
restrained person.
>> Convicted is how I think of
>> Yes. Absolutely. And right. And right,
frankly, a lot of the time,
>> particularly over the last 10 years,
that's for sure. Coming up on the
program, Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley,
Jed Dorshimer of William Blair, Nancy
Lazar of Piper Sandler, Bob Michael
[music] of JP Morgan Asset Management.
The third hour of Lindberg surveillance
up next.
[music]
I think generally people are pretty
optimistic.
>> You need to own the winners. Everything
we're doing, I think the rest of the
world should be copying.
>> When we look at the rest of the stocks
in the S&P 500, there are some cracks.
>> In the near term, caution is warranted.
>> This [music] is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this [music] into
November on a six-month winning streak
on the S&P 500 adding some weight to
that [music] October rally on the S&P up
by a quarter of 1% on the NASDAQ up by
0.55.
Lots of data in the week ahead. ISM's
manufacturing [music]
services ADP job openings a Supreme
Court hearing on the future of tariffs
worth listening to this coming
Wednesday. But just moments ago, this
headline dropping from Alphabet that
they're [music] kicking off a multi-art
dollar bond sale. Now, I'm losing track
of how many debt sales are coming from
big tech right now. Tap in this bond
market [music] big time to fund some big
AI hopes and dreams.
>> Unprecedented in both the size and scope
related to AI and frankly unprecedented
when it comes even to the investment
grade corporate bond market. We are
[music] seeing unbelievable deals coming
to the fruition and a real question here
of the changing nature of the tech
trade. It has gone from a no leverage
low uh asset light type of structure to
one that is debt intensive and that
requires a real buildout. At what point
does this get concerned or at what point
is this just the [music] way things have
to go?
>> Lisa, this is a key change that we've
got to track. This has been the
epicenter of this equity market for a
long long time and the bulls like this
stock for a number of reasons. Asset
light, capital return [music] heavy and
we're starting to see a pivot now. We're
seeing it with meta and we start to see
some push back in the equity [music]
market. Now we've spoken to people in
the credit market so far this morning.
Credit market is wide open for this
issuance welcoming it. We saw the meta
issuance in the last week. [music] Order
book was absolutely monstrous. Any signs
of push back in equities? Maybe it's
starting in debt? Not at all
>> because people are taking a look. Just
we were talking to Amanda Linham. She
said their cash flow is still
tremendous. It's not as though these are
incredibly [music] hyper leveraged
companies by any means and frankly they
see uh the potential for not having
enough supply of the cloud as an
existential risk. So for them it is
important to get out there and to
actually build capacity. The bigger
question to me is how much is the entire
market leveraged to the idea this is the
AI model. there isn't going to be some
technology that intercedes and creates a
greater degree of efficiency that
renders some of the cloud computing,
some of the data centers, some of the
other uh infrastructure less relevant.
And this is what Microsoft was talking
about. They feel like they're trying to
keep up, but they actually feel like
they are really struggling. So, they
[music] need to go out and do more. You
look at what's going on in AI and then
you think, how is the Federal Reserve
[music] too restrictive? And this was
the argument Governor Myron was making
earlier on this program.
>> Include some 50-year debt. just seeing
that headline right now in case you're
interested [music] in any of that.
>> Yeah. The idea that you can lend to a
company like Alphabet that [music] was
challenged just three years ago from the
likes of OpenAI and Chat GPT 50 years
out. What are our Google searches going
to look like? It's just going to be a
chip in our brain. We'll just sort of
search our brain and figure out what
comes up.
>> I've heard people draw comparisons to
the railroad, but the tracks [music]
stay and you keep on using them for a
long, long time. We're talking about
certain assets here that appreciate
[music] rapidly very quickly. This is a
different beast. It's completely
different beast.
>> We also have no visibility of how much
AI is going to transform the way that we
work and the way that we understand
information, frankly, how we
communicate. So, there are a lot of
questions here. 50-year [music] debt is
pretty ambitious.
>> Going to be talking about the credit
market through the next hour. Coming up,
we'll also catch up with Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley [music] as stocks trade
very close to all-time highs. Jed Dors
Shimemer of William Blair as Tesla
shareholders prepare to vote on Elon
Musk's trillion dollar pay package. Bob
Michael of JP Morgan Asset Management
drops by the studio as well as traders
look for more clarity on the path ahead
for rate cuts. We begin this hour with
stocks edging higher to kick off a new
month of trading. Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley writing the following. We expect
the uptrend in earnings revisions
breadth to resume into year end 26.
Third quarter earnings season provides a
strong stock picking environment. Mike
joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning sir.
>> Good morning John. I want to pick up on
I think a core view of yours for 2025
going into 2026. Recessions behind us. I
think that's somewhat unique to you and
the team at Morgan Stanley. Just build
that out for us.
>> Yeah, I mean you know we try to work six
months in the future. I think you know a
year ago I think remember we had this
conversation after the election you were
saying Mike you sound more optimistic
than I've heard you in a while and it
was kind of we were thinking 6 months in
advance. We thought the first half would
be tough as they transition from the
kind of growth negative policies to
these growth positive policies. So all
this capex you're talking about is is
right in line with the with the big
beautiful bill. I mean they're trying to
basically reduce consumption, increase
investment. Okay. It's a totally
different economy. And what that is,
it's a it's a higher velocity economy
for all the companies that haven't been
doing well for the last I would say 3
years. We've been sort of in a
recession. I I would argue strong. We've
we've done the work on this and you know
we we've done the analysis with respect
to the rolling recession that has been
in place for I would say three years.
most of the private economy kind of
suffering, government kind of carrying
the water and then we basically saw all
of that come to uh fruition at the end
in April. April capitulation day as I
call it was basically the government
recession. That was the final piece of
the rolling recession. And if you
actually look at the challenger job cuts
and you look at the revision data now on
the on the NF on the payroll data, it it
it looks to me like a rate of change
low, okay, in payrolls and a rate of
change high in challenger job cuts came
in April. So the markets figured all
this out. That's why revision breath has
gone straight up.
>> So rolling recovery, where are we in
those stages?
>> So we we we deemed it the rolling
recovery in April and we're now seeing
that like these areas of the market are
not everything's going to recover at
once because it's it's an unorthodox
recession. It's not like everything
flushed at once and everything recovers
at once. So it is going to be staged and
we've seen that in the market. We're
still narrow quite frankly. AI capex is
still is is kind of one of early
recoveries here. semiconductors being an
early cycle group, but we're not seeing
the other quoteunquote early cycle
groups recover the way they typically do
in a new economic cycle. Why? Because
the Fed is behind the curve. The Fed is
way behind the curve on rates. They need
rates much lower. If you really want to
get the private economy moving, rates
are too high.
>> Much lower. How much lower do you think
that really is required to get that
broadening out?
>> Well, let's just start with the two-year
Treasury yield. Okay. So, my barometer
is always the Fed is behind the curve.
if they if Fed funds is above two-year
Treasury yields and in order to
stimulate the private economy, I would
say they need to be well below that. So
that's 50 basis points just to get to
neutral and maybe another 100 plus to
get to something that's more stimulative
for the average company and the average
consumer.
>> Are you right now betting on that
broadening out and expecting maybe AI to
underperform going forward as they
invest more in some of these uh debt
sales and the infrastructure side and
the rest of the economy plays catch-up?
Absolutely. Think about the trickle down
effect of this capital spending. I mean,
it's not just going to be semiconductor
companies. There's there's a lot of
infrastructure. There's a lot of job
creation. There's a lot of velocity in
the real economy and the lending channel
starts getting going perhaps for small
medium businesses. That job creation
deregulation is another part of that
story. Okay. So, absolutely that's what
should happen if things play out the way
they they could. Now, there's risk to
that. Let's say the Fed continues to
say, "Hey, you know, we still think
there's inflation risk. We we don't like
the you inflation rate at 3%. we're not
going to raise our our targets there
that and we just kind of drag their
feet. It's going to stay narrow then.
It's going to stay up the quality curve.
And that's where we are right now, Lisa,
is that people basically are are are
trying to choose between those two
outcomes. And I would say right now most
of the institutional community is still
huddled into the high quality stocks.
They haven't really made the transition
yet.
>> Well, we we have in some of our
guidance. Yeah, absolutely.
>> In order for that transition to work,
the Fed has to cut though. That's what
it's contingent on.
>> It's it's one of the main things. Now,
Dereg is a big part of that. Okay. the
capital spending is a part of that.
Those can happen without the Fed cutting
significantly. But it would really it
would really solidify it for me. And if
you go back and look at all these
different economic cycles, small caps
and m, you know, lower quality stocks
typically don't outperform until the Fed
gets below 2-year Treasury yields. We
we've documented this. So, by the way,
it doesn't mean these stocks can't work
in absolute terms. It just means that
relative outperformance you typically
get in that early cycle rotation needs
Fed funds to be much lower. If you look
at the Fed next year, are you just
expecting a Federal Reserve that's
marketkedly different than it was today
than it is today?
>> Well, I think they're just I think
they're being patient here. You know,
they're doing their job. I I'm not one
to sit here and criticize the Fed left
and right. What I'm what I see is just a
very weird economic cycle. And I think
we've kind of we've solved the puzzle a
little bit on this. And that's why I
feel fairly confident that our narrative
we laid out this year is played out now.
I'm getting evidence in the marketplace.
I feel more confident in that narrative
that and that's sort of the difference.
I just think they're not there yet. You
know, they're not they're not where I am
in my head. I could be wrong, but I'm
pretty confident about that outcome.
>> Can we finish on big tech?
>> Sure.
>> These companies are changing. We're used
to companies that weren't investing
tons. Ultimately, they were giving it
back to shareholders. Now, we've seen a
subtle twist, I think, from the likes of
say Meta who was spending tons and tons
and tons and then coming to the debt
market to fund it. That's not what we're
used to with these names. Typically,
they're assetike, capital return heavy.
Are you noticing the same change? and
how should we treat those companies
differently if at all because of that.
>> So let's talk about the risks for the
bull market. We think a bull market
started in April, new economic earning
cycle. Okay, there are two risks. One is
that the Fed drags their feet.
Liquidity, funding market stresses kind
of pop up. The second one is what you
just talked about is that the market
starts to push back on the fact that
free cash flow growth is actually
decelerating for some of these
businesses and the asset light story is
being called into question. We haven't
seen it yet, although last week was the
first sign we saw pretty divergent
performance between some of these. And
that's that's a risk because if if all
of a sudden the market starts to, you
know, become a governing factor on those
stocks, I can guarantee you that the
management teams are going to say,
"Well, maybe we aren't going to spend
quite as much." Just like we saw in the
fall of 2024, as we talked about that
deceleration in capex and also we saw
that with uh you know, other times when
these companies spend much money, the
the the the market is a governing
factor. The management changed their
view how they're how they're guiding on
the capex. right now they're getting
rewarded for more capex.
>> The market is it welcome news that
they're leaning on the debt market a
little bit more just as this equity
market starts to push back.
>> Well, I think that I mean I think it's a
natural evolution and and and just to be
clear in all of these buildouts whether
it's railroads, electricity, uh the
internet itself. Okay, we got to we're
now into the debt part. Okay, so now
they just raised a ton of capital. Well,
they're not going to sit they're going
to spend it. So like that's another
reason to be excited on one hand because
we know that money is going to get
spent. It's not going to sit there and
collect dust. So, so you know, typically
it could last a year, two, three, I
don't know. I mean, but I it's hard for
me to believe that the spending cycle is
over when they just raised gobs and gobs
of dollars.
>> Do you think it jeopardizes capital
return programs as these companies take
on more leverage?
>> Yes, it's competing for the for the free
cash flow. So, whether it's cap and by
the way, capex now as a percentage of
free cash flow is is pretty high for
these businesses. But once again, I want
to go back. This is this is by design.
Okay. the the tax bill is is basically
incenting these companies to do it now.
I mean the government the administration
is is really encouraging businesses of
all types to start investing for the
first time in 15 years. We've
underinvested in so many things not just
you know AI but like infrastructure and
factories and you know automating uh
production and robotics and things like
that. I mean this this bill is designed
to get that engine of growth moving
>> and it's happening. But just putting all
these pieces together, this was a core
theme, I think, a core pillar for being
long US equities for a long, long time,
and now it's changed. Is it still good?
I think that's what I'm trying to get
out here. Is this still an argument to
buy US equities?
>> I think that the valuation, you know, is
telling you that the growth is going to
be better than we think. My view is that
earnings growth is going to be better
next year than people expect. Now, on
the other side of that, I do think we're
in a different environment where we have
these hotter but shorter cycles. Okay?
So, we're not in these 10-year economic
expansions anymore. And sort of it's two
years on, one year off. Two years on,
one year off. That's what we've had
since COVID, right? 2020, 2021, good,
22, bad, 23, 24, good, 24, 25 not so
good. Now we're into a new two-year
cycle. So you just have to understand
that because inflation's right under the
surface and now you have a higher
velocity economy. That means, you know,
you're going to have to trade it a
little bit more. But right now, I think
it's, you know, we're in pretty good
position.
>> Mike, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for being here. Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley piecing together the
puzzle of the S&P 500. Something really
reflexive about this bond market's
rewarded meta for it. Even with the push
back of the equity market, the order was
absolutely monstrous. So what do you do
if you're one of these companies? You're
being rewarded to do this to basically
come down in your credit rating, take on
additional leverage, issue debt because
the bond market wants it and the equity
market will reward you for the growth
you might get further down the road. I
mean, why would you do more? Which is
basically add to the argument that
ultimately you end up with a big
misallocation of resources and tons of
spare capacity down the line.
>> But pretty much everyone's saying that
we're not there yet. So keep on going
and dance while the music is going. And
that's what credit investors are saying.
I think that the interesting point here
is that might mean that in terms of
leadership, they can't gain in terms of
the big AI players because they are in
an investment cycle that doesn't have
the capital return financing, the
capital return structure that you're
talking about. So it allows some of that
money to get invested in the economy.
And then that sort of goes to the
broadening out that we heard from both
Mike and Brian Bellski.
>> It's a change in market. Futures are
higher by 0.2% on the S&P 500. That's
the price action. Let's give an update
on stories worldwide this morning.
Here's your Bloomberg brief. The
President Donald Trump declaring
Nvidia's advanced Blackwell AI chip,
which he calls 10 years ahead of the
competition, will not be available to
other countries as concerns grow about
the potential sale of a scaled down
version to China. Elsewhere, Alphabet
looking to issue even more debt,
proposing an eight-part dollar bond
sale. This comes after marketing six
euro denominated benchmark tranches.
Alphabet is raising funds to support
record capital [music] spending on
artificial intelligence and cloud
infrastructure. And finally, the Dodgers
have won the World Series defeating the
Blue Jays 5-4 in game seven. Miguel
Roertz and Will Smith delivering the key
tying and go-ahead home runs as LA
became the first repeat champions since
guess [music] who? The Yankees back in
2000. I know it's it's a little bit sad
that the Yankees were not part of this,
but I have to say to all those Toronto
fans that have been messaging me that I
should stick [laughter] to politics and
not baseball, I told you it was going to
be showtime. [music]
>> Is that your Is that you getting back at
them?
>> Yeah, I think I have it right for a
little bit of smack talk given the fact
that they have bombarded not just the
Bloomberg terminal, Instagram, Twitter,
LinkedIn. We hear you, Canadian fans.
They're very polite, but they're telling
me to stay in my lane. Now, look what
happened. And you're probably lucky the
Dodgers fans are still asleep because
they'd probably have things to throw
your way too. Up next on the program,
we'll get you some morning calls. Plus,
Jed Dorshimer of William Blair as Tesla
shareholders prepare to vote on Elon
Musk's trillion dollar pay package. That
conversation up next
[music]
We are going to see a broadening out of
the market. I think we're heading into
to Goldilocks. I think we're heading
into where you have to own a little bit
of everything, not just tech. Not at the
forsake of selling tech, but continue to
be a fundamental bottoms up investor.
Let the market do what the market does.
>> Brian Bowski at a new firm, Humilus
Investment Strategies. Congratulations
to Brian. Congratulations also to Tom
Porcelli, formerly of Py Hide by Wells
Fargo. That headline just crossing uh
the P gym economist Tom Porcelli joining
Wes for Wells Fargo as chief economist
[music] just given that headline moments
ago.
>> Yeah and I know that he will enjoy
having some yoga on his time off and
then he'll come back with a newly
inspired view of the world. So we look
forward to that.
>> Very chill isn't he? Tom Corsetti spent
the gardening leave I believe doing yoga
and he came back so centered and rested.
I was thinking wow I need to get me some
of that.
>> Very cool. Futures on the S&P this
morning. Good morning to you all.
Positive by 0.2% 2% on the NASDAQ up by
0.6 on a Russell just about unchanged.
In the bond market, bond yields shaping
up as follows. Two-year bond yields high
by two basis points. 10's up by three,
30s up by four. Bit of crowding out this
morning. Maybe a lot of debt coming to
market.
>> Yeah, the idea I have to go back to
this. The idea that Alphabet is selling
a 50-year trunch of this uh this five
parts sale that they're bringing to
market just raises this question. How
tolerant are investors [music]
to the idea of the likes of Google being
there for the next half century in the
form that they are now given how [music]
quickly the technology is developing. I
mean it's sort of mindboggling but at
the same time income is income. So I
guess people are excited by that.
>> Yields are up across the curve on the
Treasury curve. We'll see how that
alphabet issue goes a little bit later
this morning. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Wells Fargo raising its
price target on JP Morgan to 350 calling
it the quote best-in-class global bank.
Your second call from Bernstein raising
its price target on Apple to 325, citing
its [music] better than expected iPhone
17 launch. And finally, Loop raising its
price target on Nvidia to a street high
350, saying its [music] latest GPU ramp
will double its shipments in the next 12
to 15 months. Let's stick with the Mac
7. Tesla shareholders gearing up to vote
on CEO Elon Musk's $1 trillion pay
package on Thursday with the board split
on the compensation. Bloombeck's Cretell
joins us now for more. Craig, what are
the arguments on either side?
>> Yeah, I I think with uh Tesla's board,
they've uh put put this together to
essentially make up for the fact that
the 2018 award that they arranged for
Musk that was thrown out uh by a
Delaware court. uh they they want to
sort of make good on the fact that that
was uh soleied by the judge and uh you
know set some sort sort of similar uh
you know stretch goals for for the
company that he was able to achieve
after that 2018 package was put together
for him uh so that it's a sort of
win-win for shareholders. I think uh the
counter to that that we've heard from uh
you know for example from proxy advisers
ISS and Glass Lewis is that this is just
uh sort of unfathomable amount of of
compensation for one person uh and and
that uh some of the same flaws and sort
of how this was put together uh you know
are similar to what uh was was faulted
you know with the 2018 package and it
just may be the case that you don't run
into the legal issues that you did with
the 2018 18 deal because this company is
now incorporated in in Texas and we
don't have uh you know the Delaware
judge able to to insert herself again
here.
>> That's an important development. Craig,
appreciate the update. Thank you, sir.
Crochet down there over in the city of
London. Let's stick with Tesla. Jed
Dorshimer of William Blair has a market
perform rating on shares of the EV
maker. He writes the following. We
expect this to pass in the same manner
the 2018 plan did as well as the
ratification of that plan last year. Jed
joins us now for more. Jed, welcome to
the program. I think it's important to
take a step back and go back to 2018. I
remember when the news crossed and it
felt like it was totally unachievable.
Then it was achieved and then people
complained. Jed, does it feel the same
time this time around?
>> Uh yeah. I think what you're you know
the one difference here is I think this
is going to be a litmus test on
corporate governance. I mean here we've
really never had this before to this
extent where you know you have
shareholders that have voted four in you
know two times and when we look at the
you know the amount of value that's
being created and then you have two
organizations that really have no skin
in the game that uh you know have the
ability to you know to try and block
this. Um, so if it doesn't it uh go
through, I think that's going to be very
negative for the shares and ultimately
the the brunt is going to be on
shareholders.
>> Jud, why is it going to be so negative?
Because you think that Elon Musk is
going to be at risk of leaving or
because he is going to be at risk of not
necessarily uh getting to those types of
of of achievements that are put out
there in the bonus plan.
>> Yeah, I think he's at risk of leaving
should this not go through. He has made
it very clear that he is not going to be
CEO of a company that's developing um
you know a army of robots for example
you know the and um robo taxis and so
the you know his take is that the
technology is powerful enough and if he
doesn't have um oversight of that or
control of that then he is not
interested and so I don't know whether
or not that means he leaves or whether
or not you know but he certainly has
options And I think that, you know, I I
think it would be uh a mistake to not
look at Elon as the magnet that uh
attracts the talent um at Tesla. Um so I
I think there's a lot of risk should it
not go through.
>> On a broader level, Jed, I wonder what
it says about a company if there is such
key man risk given that that keyman
seems like he is potentially willing to
leave if he hasn't given a trillion
dollars. I just wonder if that exposes a
fault line in Tesla that makes you
reluctant to be as optimistic as you
otherwise would.
>> Well, I think it's a mistake to you're
focused on the the amount of pay and I
think this is where where there's a
broader misunderstanding. The trillion
isn't is only achieved if you get a 7x
increase of overall value um for the
company. And so, you know, I think there
were similar uh parallels to Apple with
respect to Steve Jobs um and the, you
know, we have to look at what is the
value that's being created here versus a
large um you know, a large number of
executives that get paid um when they
destroy value. And I think there's a a
meaningful difference there. Uh and in
fact, you know, I'd like to see more pay
packages that align
um you know, compensation uh with um
investor outcomes, which I think if
they, you know, we'd be hardpressed to
argue that if Tesla grows the market cap
by seven times um that that shareholders
aren't benefiting more than that of
Elon, even though the absolute dollars
that he would get in the uh through the
the package um you know, are enormous
and I think that enormous part is what
uh is what people have a difficulty
with.
>> It sounds like he's making the case and
you're on board with him that he doesn't
want to be sidelined. But can he not be
sidelined and have something that maybe
for some investors is more appropriate
than a trillion dollars?
>> Well, what is the problem though with
the trillion? I mean, I guess that's
what I kind of push back. Like I get
it's a huge number that's that's
unprecedented, but at the same time you
have to look at we haven't seen value
creation uh you know to that level and
there's risk. I would have a bigger
problem if he's getting that money um
regardless of the outcome or if there
were clauses like that which there
aren't. So that would be my issue. And
again look we're neutral on the name
right now. It's not as if uh you know
there's there's a dog in a fight with
respect to that. But I I think that um
there is a lot of shareholder downside
if you just do the the math on this. I
think from a if you know as a
shareholder um I would be very concerned
particularly if if an organization that
didn't own any shares [music] was was
making that vote.
>> Jed super well framed. Appreciate your
time. Jed Dorshimer there of William
Blair. Don't get distracted by the big
flashy number. focus on the incentives.
If they're making money, he makes money.
[music] And if they don't, he shouldn't.
And that should apply to most companies
in corporate America. But unfortunately,
[music]
it doesn't. From New York, this is
Bloomberg.
[music]
3-week winning stretch on the S&P 500
this morning. Up again by 210 of 1%.
Sixmon winning run on the benchmark
[music] in America. Looking to make it
month seven. Month seven already there
on the NASDAQ 100. Seven consecutive
months of gains for big tech. That's the
longest streak going back to 2017. This
morning higher by 0.5%. [music] The
opening battle about 60 minutes away.
Let's get you some single names and
morning movers. Here's Danny with more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Leading the gains the Max
Heaven this morning is Nvidia. Shares
are up just under 2%. Couple things
going on. For one, all of tech is
rallying. Also, Microsoft finally
[music] allowed to ship the latest and
greatest Nvidia chips to the UAE,
helping Microsoft's investment in the
region. That comes off the back of a
deal that President Trump made with
leaders in the UAE back [music] in May.
Elsewhere, a lot of deal news to sort
through. One of them, the big one this
morning, being Kimberly Clark buying Ken
View [music] in a deal that values the
consumer goods company at $40 billion.
Ken View [music] has been struggling
since it was spun off from J&J. It's had
a lot of activist investors circling
around. It [music] also makes Tylenol,
which has had some political drama
behind it. Uh Kimberly Clark shares for
their part down 14%. Finally wrapping
things up with Beyond Meat this morning.
A wild ride this company's gone on. It's
been a mean stock. So it's been up, it's
been down this morning, falling by 8%.
It was supposed to report earnings
tomorrow [music] instead. It says it
will delay that earnings report till
November 11th. It said it's taken a
large impairment charge [music] on some
of its bigger assets. It didn't detail
exactly what that is, but it said it
will be a significant charge and it
needs more time to figure out [music]
exactly what those numbers look like.
So, Beyond Meat down 7 and a half%,
John.
>> Yeah, that's never good. Danny, thank
you. Looking forward to the program.
Bloomberg open interest coming up with
Danny Burgerer and Matt Miller about 30
minutes away. Let's turn to the economy.
Traders relying on alternative and
private data this week with a shutdown
nearing historic length. Bloomberg's
Mike McKe joins us now for more. Mike,
we won't get payrolls, but we get a lot
of other data points. We do get some
data points that people are going to be
paying attention to starting today with
the ISM manufacturing numbers. We'll
look at the headline, but of course,
everybody's going to want to look at
what the payroll numbers tell us and
what the price action is. On Wednesday
is the big number of the week. Can you
believe, Lisa, we're saying this? ADP.
ADP is going to be the only major
comprehensive number for the month in
terms of employment. So, it'll get an
awful lot of attention. ISM services
that day also will have an employment
component and a prices component.
Thursday, estimated claims, we'll have
these late in the afternoon. When they
release the raw state data, they're not
going to be exactly accurate, but what
we've seen in recent weeks is we aren't
getting a lot of layoffs in the numbers.
Friday, Michigan sentiment. We'll see
how people feel about inflation
expectations. Uh it's more about uh
these alternative data sources as John
said than it is about what's going to
happen, what's not going to happen from
the government. A lot of data not coming
out this week. Jobs on Friday is of
course the big one we're going to miss.
But we don't get uh trade and jolts on
Tuesday. We don't get productivity and
the real claims numbers on Thursday. All
of this stuff got to come out at some
point once they get the government open.
We don't have any idea when that's going
to be. But filling the gap, we do have
Fed speak this week coming up later
today. Mary Dailyaly and Lisa Cook, her
first comments since the Trump
administration went after her trying to
fire her. We'll see what she has to say
if she talks politics or just the
economy. And as you can see, a very busy
week the rest of the week, particularly
on Thursday with six different speakers.
And Friday, uh, Phil Jefferson, the vice
chair, speaks for the first time in a
long time. He doesn't speak very often.
and Steven Myron who was just on with
you uh will be talking about stable
coins, something different for a change
from him. We'll see what he has to say
about that. Mike McKe, thank you sir. I
appreciate the update. Michael McKe
looking ahead to a week full of data.
Don't get the usual suspects. No
payrolls data this week, but you will
get the ISM's ADP and job openings.
Let's stick with the alternative data.
Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler writing,
"Look past the scary AI job destroying
headlines. Keep an eye on claims. NFIB
jobs, S&P, PMI, employment, all showing
incremental improvements in the labor
market. Nancy joins us now for more.
Nancy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Here's the worst of it behind us then.
>> I think so. I think we are at an
positive inflection point in the
economy. No question here in 4Q with the
government shutdown, you're going to
have a little bump in the road, but it's
important to look at the trend and uh
you're getting plenty of green shoots
from all those indicators that you
mentioned. Even on the job side,
although Amazon is laying off people,
claims are incrementally low. Uh Amazon
probably overhired during the COVID uh
COVID crisis. They're just
renormalizing. And importantly, the big
guys don't create jobs. It really is.
80% of jobs are created in companies
with less than 500 employees. And so
that's why the increase in the NFIB
index is so important. The uh there's
also the S&P PMI that comes out today.
We already have a preliminary October
reading for that. Uh that uh employment
component is is is is positive.
Conference boards jobs data were a
little bit uh more positive. regional
fed uh employment data and it's
important. We're also positive and it's
important it's manufacturing.
Manufacturing has a much bigger
multiplier than the service sector and
so I'm actually excited that it's
starting with the manufacturing space.
>> Can I pick up on claims? Yeah.
>> How instructive are jobless claims when
they've been pretty stable through the
year as payrolls have decelerated quite
aggressively since the start of 25.
>> So first on payrolls, it's a misleading
indicator. It should be reported mainly
maybe once a quarter until they have a
better sample uh sample size. They're
trying to capture over 20 million
companies in 250 industry groups. It was
just revised down 900,000 after being
revised down pretty consistently in each
of the past four years on a monthly on a
monthly basis. So lousy data. Uh I would
much rather look at the survey data that
we've been focusing on. And claims
claims obviously capture firings. Uh
what continuing claims show you are
hirings. And so we've had limited
firings which is what claims show you.
But companies are reluctant to hire as
of now given that they're trying to
protect their profits. A lot of economic
uncertainty, but we would look for as we
go into 2026 for continuing claims.
That's going to be the key metric to
watch as far as our companies getting
ready to start to hire. As of now, no.
Uh but with lagged effect of the Fed
easing cycle, the Fed's eased over 100
basis points, 150 basis points over the
past year. We would argue there already
are plenty accommodative and that's
improving corporate profits and that
will get you rehiring as we move into
26.
>> I want to pick up on something that you
noted which is that there's a
transformation underway in the economy
where it's going from some of these
white collar jobs where you are seeing
layoffs and you're expecting to see
hiring pick up in the manufacturing
sector. Is this a big transformation
that you can really put your finger on
and say this is what's going to happen.
This is the future. Maybe go to tech
school. I'm thinking of my kids and get
yourself, you know, uh, some kind of
degree in more of the manufacturing
sector than anything else.
>> Thousand%. Palunteer was in the news
last week. They're hiring high school
kids. Great idea. Get a job, then see if
you want to go go to college or if you
need to go to uh if you need to go to
college. Yes, I think this is
transformational. It's actually been
unfolding for about 15 years. It started
last cycle when capital spending started
to come back to the United States. China
just wasn't a hot great place to do
business anymore like it had been. And
so we started to get onshoring. We
started to get goods producing jobs
increase 2010 through 2019. That's
important because it's a huge job
multiplier. When you create factories,
you need a support system around it.
Other smaller factories, distribution
centers, and then other services
eventually eventually uh unfold. So I do
think this is transformational. It's
healthy for the economy. Not everybody
needs to go to college, wants to go to
college and there should be other job
opportunities and and yes I think it is
uh transformational.
>> This is one fear that people have that
there's a huge skills gap right now
whether it's AI and some of the
technology that's coming to the four
that's making companies more efficient
or whether it's some of these more
technical fields where people just don't
have the training or expertise. Is there
something that's going to be friction in
this transformation that you see as a
problem that's needing more easing from
the Fed that's needing a little bit
extra oomph to give it that support?
>> No, I would say no more oomph from the
Fed. All they do is create bubbles
versus versus creating a healthy
economic backdrop for middle America.
They those big easing cycles create, you
know, a great environment. I think one
of your guests said that this morning
for Wall Street, let's focus on let's
focus on Main Street where you can have
maybe uh slow inflation, uh relatively
low interest rates. um and a and a and a
solid job cycle. Uh so uh train them. I
visited a prison about uh six years ago
where they were training inmates as they
got parole uh in skills. Um and they
would train them and they go out uh they
get on parole and they would get a job.
So you can train people to work in
factories. I grew grew up in a factory
town. I I I saw it myself and and it's
train them. That's not a big deal. Uh
Penny Pritsker was really focused on
that uh early early last decade.
community college system, companies
working with community colleges. No, I'm
excited about it rather than people
depending upon the government where they
can actually go out and get a healthy
good job.
>> Do you think there's been fresh impetus
on this because of the Trump
administration trying to get
manufacturing back into the United
States by using a carrot and stick
approach with tariffs?
>> Yeah, certainly that's reinforcing it.
But I really want to emphasize the
private sector first started to do it
back in 2010. I listened to companies
and companies were complaining about the
difficulties in doing business, stealing
technology uh AI uh heavy hand from from
the government and so this has been
going on for 10 years and and to be sure
uh I I like your description the carrot
and the sticks uh abs absolutely and the
thing on the carrot it takes time um uh
same with a stick it takes time to build
these these these factories and so we've
seen a lot of announcements about 40 45
uh announcements this year of major
companies announcing
uh construction of new facilities, but
to plan those facilities, then to
execute it. And that's what I like about
it. It's slow. It's not fast. And it can
create a sustained cycle uh potentially
even another one of those long business
cycles that we saw in 2010 through 2019.
>> If we do get some layoffs, the Financial
Times had a story about this, how
companies are just going to say it's AI.
Do you think it really is down to AI or
that is just politically easier and more
beneficial them to blame something that
they're going to have to deal with in a
few years or maybe not they're dealing
with right now?
>> It's probably a little bit of both.
First, every business cycle upturn is
led by technology. If you go back to uh
uh 91, 2001, 2000 tech, if you look at
GDP, tech capital spending has always
led because it gives you productivity,
profitability, and then you can get
jobs. Classically these upturns you do
have a slow job market because yes
companies are trying to protect their
profit margins. So maybe it's a little
bit of excuse but the capex we're seeing
uh being spent uh on on on AI um is is
leading the economy and it will give you
uh old economy capex as you go through
the year. So maybe it's an excuse but at
the end of the day it's it's not unusual
to have a sluggish upturn uh in
employment going into a reaceleration.
>> Nancy it's good to see you.
>> You too.
>> Always great to catch up. Nancy Lazard
of Piper Sander slightly more
constructive on the outlook here. Just
getting this headline confirmation
Alphabet looking to raise 15 billion US
dollars from a dollar bond sale. 15
after Meta's monster issue last week.
>> Yeah. And honestly, this is sort of the
beginning of a tsunami of debt that is
going to go to investment. I just wonder
at what point does it become an issue
for the stock traders versus uh the bond
investors that seem to be welcoming it.
The 50-year tunch, very curious how that
does.
>> Arms wide open now apparently. based on
the order book of of Meta.
>> Yeah, it was a very big order book for
Meta 50-year debt. I don't know.
Remember when uh Argentina came out with
this?
>> You're drawing a parallel between
alphabet debt and Argentina.
>> I'm not. I'm just saying that a lot of
things can happen over a long time. No,
that was probably not, but they both
start with a.
>> No, you know what? At least the country
is going to be there in 50 years. That's
the difference when it comes to
corporations. I know
>> Alphabet up by 0.6%. Coming up on the
program, we'll be catching up with Bike
Michael of JP Morgan Asset Management to
get his views on fixed income. Before we
get there, let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. The US pausing some of President
Trump's reciprocal tariffs on China and
halting plans to implement a 100% tariff
on Chinese exports to the US. [music] In
return, China immediately suspending
export controls on rare earth metals and
dropping its probes into US chip firms.
That's where Microsoft signing an
approximately $9.7 billion deal to
purchase AI cloud capacity from Iron,
becoming the Australian company's
largest customer. The 5-year agreement
will provide Microsoft [music]
access to Nvidia accelerator systems in
Texas. And finally, staffing issues
triggering multiple [music] ground stops
at Newick Airport in New Jersey this
weekend. The stops causing delays and
forcing the cancellation of more than
100 flights. Air traffic controllers
working without [music] pay during the
government shutdown. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. Up next, as promised,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, Bob Michael [music] of JP Morgan
Asset Management with big tech taking on
new debt to fund AI from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> What matters for the stance of policy is
where you are relative to the neutral
rate. And if neutral is here and
policyy's up here, you're very tight. If
neutral's here and policy is down here,
you're very loose. But if you stay where
you are and then neutral [music] goes
down, you've passively tightened because
the neutral rate has shifted. And so
policy has grown tighter over the course
of the year. I think that we're I think
that we're a fair way from neutral and I
think that we could get there a bit
faster. [music] I could imagine getting
there in a series of 50 clips.
>> Governor Marin of the Federal Reserve
his first broadcast interview since that
descent last week to push for a [music]
50 basis point reduction. And it sounds
like he's going for 50 again when they
get around the table in December for the
final meeting of 2025. As we count you
down to the opening bell, here's the
trading diary for the week ahead. 9:45
a.m. Eastern time. Some data. S&P Global
Manufacturing [music]
PMIs at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. ISM
manufacturing data. Tuesday, election
day in the US and earnings from AMD. On
Wednesday, ADP employment data, ISM
services, earnings from Qualcomm, plus a
Supreme Court hearing on President
Trump's tariffs. And onto Thursday, a
Bank of England interest rate decision,
a sent debt market. Big tech looking for
more cash to fund AI spending. Alphabet
expecting to raise $15 billion in an
eight-part dollar bond sale. The move
coming just after Meta issued $30
billion of debt just last week. A man
who might be buying some of that, Bob
Michael of JP Morgan Asset Management
joins us now for more. Bob, good
morning.
>> Happy to be here.
>> Hey, it's good to see you, sir. We
talked about the the market being arms
wide open for this tech debt. Is it? Do
you the same thing?
>> Yeah, I think so. And I think the tech
companies are pretty smart to issue in a
relatively flat yield curve. Uh they do
have uh funding needs. They've got
expenditures. Um, and why not tackle the
market right now? There are a lot of
pension funds and insurance companies
out there that are looking for
highquality debt in the longer end of
the yield curve.
>> Well, let's talk about the longer end.
Lisa talked about it. We all did.
50-year debt for a tech company. Can you
help sort of a normal person understand
why a credit investor would want to buy
50-year debt of an American corporation,
particularly in the tech sector, where
things change minute to minute, never
mind decade to decade.
>> Well, we'll see how that goes. I'm all
for a 50-year US Treasury, but if you
think about corporate America and look
in 50-year installments, they do change
quite a bit. I'm not so certain about
that one.
>> Okay. So, you might not be buying the
50-year uh bond, but at the same time,
the other longer duration tech sales
you're okay with. I'm just wondering if
what we're seeing is the tip of the
iceberg. If there are a lot of
issuances, maybe not of the Metas and
the Alphabets and the Microsofts of the
world, but the less credible ones that
are also getting a pretty good reception
in the bond market, does that worry you?
>> Um,
not right now. It worries me if I
thought recession were credible over the
next 12 to 18 months. And with the US
economy that looks good, not fantastic,
but good and solid, where we expect sort
of trend growth next year, I'm okay with
corporate America financing itself and
seeing what it can do. There's also the
one big beautiful bill act uh coming
next year that has the trillion dollars
in incremental spending attached to it.
So that's a pretty nice tailwind for the
US consumer as well. Governor Myron when
he was on the show earlier today pointed
to the private credit markets as
harboring some of the risk that
otherwise would be visible in public
markets saying that it isn't marked to
market in any kind of current level.
You're seeing a lot of tech investment
there. Are you concerned that we're
seeing the best of the bunch in the
public markets but there's a lot of
other stuff that just isn't as visible
that has seen some deterioration?
When I heard that comment that private
credit is a symptom that credit
conditions are too tight, I felt like I
was having an outofbody experience
because I think myself and the market
broadly believe that what we've seen
with a handful of issuers that credit
conditions are too loose. There's such
an overabundance of liquidity out there
that the marginal borrower with a
questionable business model can access
funding. Can it go on forever? I always
say a rolling loan gathers no loss and
at some point the weak business model,
the weak borrower will be exposed. I
think we've seen some of that. I think
what we're actually seeing is credit
conditions are quite loose and perhaps
it is in the private credit space. I
don't think they're too tight.
>> What are you avoiding? As you speak, I'm
listening to you talk about certain
issues attracting a lot of capital maybe
when they shouldn't. What are you
avoiding?
>> Well, that's a very high level statement
to address, but I think every sector of
the market holds a lot of value. We do
recognize we are in an extended cycle.
It's being supported by a lot of macro
policy. You have to be very issuer
specific. So, we're relying on our
credit analysts more than ever to keep
us in the companies that we think will
be the survivors over the next few years
and those that are going to have
problems if there's a slowdown, if
there's a recession. I'm not going to be
tempted by a handful of extra basis
points in yield.
>> What are the single name analysts saying
about tech companies and how the
character of these tech companies are
changing typically very very asset
light? We talked about how heavy they
were in capital returns for a long time
and when they came to the debt markets
was for very very different reasons.
Maybe the profits were abroad didn't
want to bring them home so they borrowed
domestically to fund capital return
programs. This is different. They're
investing lots in assets and some of
those assets depreciate rapidly. How do
you approach that situation as these
companies and the character of them
starts to develop, starts to change?
Yeah, the cable providers are a not too
distant uh reminder of what can happen
if you overinvest in capital. For me,
Alphabet is a really interesting one.
You go back to the dot bubble and the
thousands of companies with.com in their
name. They're one of a small handful
that made it and made it in a big way.
So they see something, they got it right
then, they see something now, they want
to get right again. And that's a broader
use for AI probably for things we don't
even know will exist 10 years from now.
So I think businesses that are investing
in AI, that are borrowing, that are are
trying to be the leading edge, yeah,
they're going to make some mistakes. Not
everything they do will pay off. most of
the things that they do will, but at
least they're going to be part of
determining what that looks like. You're
right. It does change the way we look at
these tech companies from just being
cash generators and cash cows to
something that are more balanced and
>> Can I just jump in as the credit
investor, your guarantee, you hope, is
that you get paid. You don't get the
hopes and dreams and all the upside of
the equity investor. And what I'm
hearing and seeing now from Meta is that
they're saying now, Lisa, you know what?
I'm not going to lean on equity anymore.
I'm going to go to the debt market and
fund the hopes and dreams in credit. So,
you're on the hook and I just see all
the upside in the equity. Now, maybe
I've got this all wrong and you can tell
me if I have, but that's what it sounds
like.
>> Okay, let's not go crazy here. The
amount of borrowing they're doing on
their market cap and their free cash
flow is a bit decorative. And I think
what it's doing is it's just starting to
set up the markets for we will be coming
back regularly. we will be borrowing
more to balance the way we finance
ourselves and this is what we're
thinking about. I don't think it's so
bad. I'm not that worried right now.
>> You did say that you think that
financial conditions are too loose and
that they're incredibly easy and that
that's what concerns you is that money
is slloshing around in a way where
things tend to happen. Where do you see
that and does a Fed rate cut make you
more cautious?
What would make me more cautious is if
the next Paul Vulkar is going to be
appointed to chair the Fed and comes in
and says, "Stop the madness. Look at the
10 trillion in CO policies out there.
Look at the 8 trillion in QE out there.
It's still in the system. How do we get
it out?" But we're not going to see
that. Instead, we're going to go on with
the experiment that we can borrow and
spend. We can bring interest rates down.
Maybe that will jump start the housing
market. Recessions we can deal with very
quickly on a weekend if they
materialize. I don't want to fight that
right now. I think it's good for the
bond market. I think it's good for
credit spreads. I think it's good for
risk assets. Fed rate cutting cycles are
not what bare markets and recessions are
made of.
>> I used to think his name was Kevin
Walsh. I'm I'm not so sure anymore.
>> It maybe was, but Kevin Walsh has put on
a different Halloween costume and seems
a little bit different. left the
building different guy Bob Michael good
to see you thanks for dropping by thank
you sir Bob Michael there of JP Morgan
asset management coming up tomorrow to
SL of Apollo Henry trad partners mirror
panda of JP Morgan asset management and
Kathy Boschantic of Nationwide from New
York City this morning good morning to
you all thank you very much for choosing
Bloomberg TV this was Bloomberg
surveillance That's
[music]
the WTA finals in Riyad. Arena Sabalena
dominated Jasmine Palini to clinch her
first win of the tournament. The world
number one fired 11 aces and 24 winners
in the victory which took just over an
hour. Elsewhere, Jessica Beula avenged
her defeat to Koko Golf in the recent
final in Wuhan with a three set win. The
defending champion hit 75 unforced
errors [music] in the loss.